**** *YEAR_1950

Disney himself said he should never have attempted it, and it was a flop until hippies found it was fun to watch while high.Children like it. I myself loved it, as a child of six, until I got old enough to read the actual books and began to evaluate it in a more critical light.With the Tim Burton movies, Disney Studios has now made three horrible 'Alice in Wonderland' films.In truth, it seems to be a story that's exceptionally had to translate to the screen. Most people who try it, like Burton, give into the temptation to add tons of extraneous plotline. I'll give old Walt credit on that score. At least what was in the movie came from the books.For me, the best and most faithful adaptation is Jonathan Miller's 1966 version for the BBC. It's aimed more toward adults than children, though, and the decision not to dress the actors up in animal costumes may put some people off.
Enjoyed some scenes and was bored at many, I think there are many better Disney animations.
Never enjoyed this story as a kid and certainly not warmed to it watching again as an adult, it's like a noisy shouty series of headache inducing hallucinogenic trips! Maybe Alice should have kept off the magic mushrooms and spared us all this nonsense!Lacks warmth, lacks story and lacks charm, more the stuff of nightmares than fairytales! The animation is also fairly plain & crude compared to earlier Disney animations such as Bambi.
'Alice in Wonderland' is one of the most famous literary adaptations by Disney, and one of the most successful. Though pieced together by twelve writers and five directors, it feels like a cogent whole, made by people who loved and understood their source material.Despite countless other attempts, this remains the only 'Alice' film to capture the Wonderland Lewis Carroll described. Not only do its assets fill the entire technicolour spectrum, the backgrounds are often very dark. This makes the foregrounds pop more strongly, whilst giving off the sense that something isn't right. Alice's adventures are emotionally ambivalent, after all -- a combination of wonder and fear.And despite unforgettable portrayals of the Catterpilar, Mad Hatter, Cheshire Cat, and Queen of Hearts, the writers always kept in mind that this is Alice's story. She is the spill of sanity around which Wonderland revolves. And more than that: She is a genuinely nice person. Her childlike earnestness lends her both a deadpan character and a strong sense of vulnerability. When she begins to argue with the Queen, you wish she'd swallowed her thought.When people think back of Disney's 'Alice', the Hatter and Queen are probably the first things they mention -- and glorious they are. But it is a much more balanced film that people tend to give credit for. Its technicolour psychedelia are embraced by an oppressing dark. Its looney antics are supported by a simple but strong emotional core. This remains the best 'Alice' film to date.
I grew up watching this movie nonstop, and so even did my mother in her childhood.I absolutely adore this movie.
I've always had an affection for the Alice in Wonderland stories. Love the books and everything. It's a childhood favorite for me.
In my opinion, this is the best Alice in wonderland movie. 10/10.
Because of the Chesire Cat's smle and the unbirthday tea party!!!!
You can watch it when you're 8 or 80...
It's magical, colorful and amazingly crazy!!
The alphabetical trawl through Disney Plus finally lands me on a film that I do have strong childhood memories about watching. The animated 'Alice In Wonderland' from 1951, I had on VHS and regularly spent Sunday mornings watching them on a cycle, with a number of other classic era VHS tapes.Alice (Kathryn Beaumont), bored of her studies, chases a White Rabbit (Bill Thompson) into a strange fantasy world, where the rules of physics don't apply and animals can talk. Though lost and confused, Alice continues to explore, hearing a story from Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum (J Pat O'Malley) and attends a Mad Hatter's (Ed Wynn) tea party before falling foul of the Queen of Hearts (Verna Felton) who threatens to execute her.It's admittedly not a great story as, not unlike the two source novels it cribs from, it's essentially a nonsense dream. It's generally quite freeform in its approach, songs come and go, as do allegorical asides and numerous odd moments. This manic approach only increases towards the end, as the scenes and characters blend together as the dream comes to an end. You can understand why the creative team struggled so much to create a narrative that works as well as this does, but also perhaps why audiences initially struggled with the film.It is nicely animated though, very much the golden age of Disney style and there are a number of excellent and memorable songs, including the 'Unbirthday Song' and the (slightly odd) 'Golden Afternoon' garden medley.I admit, this might be one where my nostalgia is winning out over my genuinely critical brain. Not having a good story is generally my most common criticism of films I don't like and that's definitely one you could level against 'Alice In Wonderland' but still, for a brief amount of time, I'm transported back 30 years watching the film on a blocky wooden TV at my Grandparents - and I was happy.
The characters are just so delightful and interesting the animation is nice and i overall just enjoyed the movie
No wonderland is sane, certainly not from the mind of Lewis Carroll, and the Disney version of this classic children's novel is certainly something that adults who see it after having seen it as a child can enjoy it in a completely different way. Elements of the actual story are more adult oriented anyway which is why this book is taught in adult literature classes labeled as children's literature. There's also a reason why certain acid rock songs use Alice in Wonderland as a reference to drug trips.Disney's version certainly has to appeal to children so the adult elements are somewhat toned down even though much of the freaking nature of it still exists for them to pick up and for children to just look on perplexed. It's basically a non-structural story, a series of events that occurs when Alice falls into the rabbit hole and tries to get out after her series of weird adventures.For fans of classic movies, you'll recognize some obscure character actors providing the voices, particularly Doris Lloyd as one of the flowers and Sterling Holloway ('Winnie the Pooh') as the Cheshire cat. Who better to voice of Mad Hatter than Ed Wynn and he actually looks like the character he's voicing. But the best material goes to Verna Felton as the queen of hearts, and she is a maddest of them all both in temperament and in sanity.Kathryn Beaumont, who voices Alice, doesn't have the strongest singing voice, but she's delightfully acerbic in how she deals with some of the weird situations surrounding her. This isn't notable as far as the songs are concerned anyway so you won't be singing any of the songs even though the flower chorus number and the walrus and the carpenter are very well done. I've seen at least half a dozen Alices over the years, and they are all unique in nature, but this being Disney gives it the label of an instant classic.
Must be one of the most overrated Disney movies. I really don't see anything at all special or interesting about it.
A movie filled with puzzles, riddles, oxymoron, idioms, Onomatopoeia, fantasy, mind control, perception, interpretation, matrix, 3 monkeys, exploration, bizarre, read between the lines, lies, jokes, bent reality, dream, nightmare, wonders, myths, magic fiction, story, fables, fairy tales, exploration, good, evil and in between.
There are so much going on.Not a movie for children. It's a movie for the enlightened ones.
I was so surprised I hadn't seen this before, then I noticed the date. I think I can be excused for having not been born in time to see it. It's a PG version of the strange and drug riddled imagination of Lewis Carroll which turns his nonsensical rhymes into songs. Always a pleasure to hear the voice work of Ed Wynn. Because it's a Classic Disney Animation and entirely in keeping with of the cultural lenses of the 50s, I give this film a 7 (good) out of 10. {Animation}
Alice In Wonderland is a 1951 animation directed by Clide Geronimi, Wilfred Jackson and Hamilton Luske.
This was a very strange experience, I saw this late at night and it felt like I was dreaming to the point that if I suddenly had woken up and discovered the whole film was a dream I would probably not have been impressed.
The best part of the film for me was probably all the colorful imagery and animation, particularly in the Cheshire cat.
The film is overall very enjoyable however in my opinion it's not nearly as great as other classic Disney movies.
7.1/10
Although, perhaps, not surprising for an adaptation that begins by misspelling the pen name of 'Lewis Carroll,' Disney's 'Alice in Wonderland' is radically different from Charles Dodgson's Alice books. They share many of the same episodes, but their logic, or lack thereof, for them are contradictory. Classified as part of the literary nonsense genre, the Alice books don't lack in meaning; to the contrary, they're replete in allegory, parody and symbolism--so much so that they continue to bemuse and amuse readers. Even, if you're like me, or the titular Alice, for that matter, you're quite sure you don't grasp all of it. The puns and play with language in itself is a marvel and part of this turning of logic on its head. Even the 'Lewis Carroll' pseudonym is a translation and re-translation of Dodgson's name reversed between English and Latin and back. The characters and story of Alice's adventures are secondary, at best, to this nonsense. Then, as if looking at the Alice books through his own looking glass, Walt Disney and company reversed this dichotomy: placing character and story, as well as their presentation, as paramount.And they did fairly well at it. Despite the misspelled credit, Disney already had a long track record with reworking 'Alice's Adventures in Wonderland' and 'Through the Looking Glass.' In the 1920s, Disney's Alice Comedies featured a live-action girl who entered an animated world inspired by the Wonderland and mirror fantasy land from Carroll. These short films were as much a product of Disney's world, including the reflexivity of Alice visiting a cartoon studio in 'Alice's Wonderland' (1923), as the books were of Dodgson's world of mathematics, Oxford and the Liddell family. There are also a couple short cartoons featuring two of Disney's better-known brands bookending the production of this feature: 'Thru the Mirror' (1936) with Mickey Mouse and 'Donald in Mathmagic Land' (1959) with the duck. Unfortunately, Walt was long-since deceased by the time his company would regurgitate the same material twice over in the 2010s.Nonetheless, in this version, some of the more-intriguing characters from the books are well developed as humorous personalities instead of mere mouthpieces for Dodgson's riddles. There remains a strong sense of childhood confusion towards the world, the mixing of fantasy and reality, and of growing up (or down, as the case may be). Moreover, it's a pleasantly colorful cartoon--some claim even psychedelic. From the blonde and blue of Alice, to the diverse garden of flowers, and the red-painted white roses, it's a vibrant palette. Some of the imagery is lovely, too, including Alice lying in flowers, reflections in a pond, and her floating exit. The songs, much of them derived from Carroll's poems, are pleasant, too. There's a stronger sense in the film as opposed to the source of plot progression, as Alice follows a Dorothy-esque path through a topsy-turvy world until she wishes to return home, à la 'The Wizard of Oz' (1939). And, still, some reviewers absurdly bemoan the lack of character development and pacing.But, all of that makes for a shallow transmutation of two of the greatest works in literary history--and I'm not talking about L. Frank Baum. It insists logic upon nonsense. There's nothing of Carroll in some of the lyrics, which are entirely superficial (i.e. Alice, or whomever, sings about where she wants to go or how she feels in a straightforward manner). Even those adapted from the books are oft largely rewritten to make more sense for characterization and plot. The nadir is Alice singing while lost in the woods, which has nothing to do with what Carroll wrote. Most of the fun from wordplay is lost. Consequently, the ultimate nonsense here is that by making sense of Alice's adventures, they undo much of its meaning.
'Alice In Wonderland (1951)' is random and nonsensical entirely by design, an escalating series of increasingly strange set-pieces that sees the audience, much like the eponymous Alice, in a state of near constant bemusement. It's also often frustrating precisely because it is so unconcerned with traditional narrative. I mean, it's not like it's an experimental art-house flick, but its plot is loose - and weird - enough to be notable. What allows it to rise above some of the studio's other, similarly undisciplined work is the fact that this almost carelessness has been carefully crafted from the get-go. This story has always been about what it would be like if nothing made sense, if there were no rules whatsoever. It's a metaphor for growing up and is, when it comes down to it, a coming-of-age tale. Sadly, even among all its creatively colourful flamboyance, it does start to get a little dull due to its repetitive nature. Not all of its sequences are created equal, either, and some of them are actually pretty grating. Having said that, its best scenes really are quite something. The animation, which is unshackled by the laws of logic, is constantly inspired and can provoke a smile all by itself. This is especially evident when it comes to the Mad Hatter's 'unbirthday' party and the enigmatic appearances of the Cheshire Cat. In the end, the film is enjoyable almost all the way through. It lacks a truly cohesive narrative and can be a bit repetitive, but it's a solid animated adventure with some great visuals. 6/10
This film really captures the surreal nature of the original books. The animated style is imaginative and strange. We really feel Alice's experience as we navigate this bizarre and hostile world. The characters, setting and soundtrack all stand out. The animation and voicing of Alice herself, in particular, are excellent because she has been almost rotoscoped.
There isn't anything particularly bad about 'Alice in Wonderland', but it's always a film that I've found a chore to watch - nothing has ever hit with me.Everything about this is fine, from the animation to the voice cast to the characters to the world itself. I think it's just lacking that extra little oomph. I appreciate a lot of its elements, which is probably why I do enjoy the 2010 remake from Tim Burton; which adds a dimension to things.The parts of this 1951 production that I do like are the adventure aspects, it does feel as if you're visiting a wonderland; perhaps, though, they could've made the world feel more lived in and more vast, it does feel quite localised in parts.A load of people love this film, and I can respect why, but it has never entertained me personally.
Alice in Wonderland (1951) - 6.3Act 1 - 6.2Act 2 - 6.1Act 3 - 6.5
Imaginative film of nonsense being led by Alice as we experience what she isGreat animationFilm feels like a fever dream it an acid tripGet the nonsense but some of it just isn't enjoyable and some is entertainingDecent filmAlice dreams of her own world that consists of nonsense and fantastical ideasAlice is day dreaming and then sees a rabbit dressed as a human who is late for somethingAlice follows him down a rabbit hole and enters a fantastical worldAlice is a sweet girl who is quite imaginative and curiousAlice meets new and interesting people and things while still chasing the rabbitTweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum are annoyingStory about the Walrus and the oysters is long and like a short in the film, unnecessary, gets tricked and eatenAlice catches up with the rabbit and he thinks she is a person called Mary Anne, Alice gets back to normal size in his house and stuckShe eats a carrot and shrinks down again and rabbit runs off still being late and Alice pursuesMeet flowers who sing for her and then berate her and make her leaveFilm is like an acid tripAlice meets a caterpillar who is very stuck up and turns into a butterfly and tells Alice to eat a mushroom and one side makes you larger and one side makes you smallEats and gets very large and small again and then the right height she wants and holds on to the mushroomsThen meets the Cheshire Cat who has some magical capabilities, most everyone is mad hereAlice then stumbles across a tee party for an unbirthday, Mad HatterRabbit shows up and they mess with his watch, still running late, destroy his watchAlice says she's done with the nonsense and wants to go homeVery creative things throughout the filmFever dreamAlice gets sad and lost in the woodsNever follows her own adviceCheshire Cat appears and says she should meet the QueenShortcut and at the castle and meets some playing cardsRabbit shows up and he introduces the Queen of Hearts and the KingQueen sees they are painting the roses red and says off with their headsQueen is very aggressiveAlice and the Queen play croquetteEveryone afraid of the Queen is she isn't pleased, she is madCheshire Cat appears and messes with the QueenQueen wants to cut off Alice's head and Ling says she should get a trial so she doesFunny how the king is submissive and tinyTrial is nonsenseAlice takes the mushroom and gets giant again and berates the Queen and then shrinks againThe cards chase her as the Queen wants her dead and Alice runsSee all the characters return as she goes through all the same events againAlice sees herself sleeping through the door in the real worldAlice wakes up in the real world back to her lesson and walks back to her home for tea
.
This movie is very regular but the animation is very good
Is a good movie. but very confused. some songs and characters are remarkable. Barely has history
A suitably madcap ride through the trippy underground scene with Alice, if not an especially deep or meaningful one. I'm sure we can all identify the most famous beats, or at least vaguely recall them with a little nudge - cheshire cat, late for a date, eat me, drink me, off with their heads - but what of the larger narrative? Uh, something about a rabbit hole, a caterpillar with a hookah and a trial? It's okay, I forgot the particulars of the over-arching storyline, too. Those are tough to remember because they don't exist. The whole film is just an assortment of scattered episodes, loosely related by a loopy shared disposition and the presence of one well-dressed, blonde-haired little lady. Alice basically tumbles into a new room, encounters strange sights and sounds, causes a mess, fails to resolve anything and then tumbles out the exit.The creative team does their part to make those interludes stimulating, using wild, colorful animations, fittingly offbeat character designs, strangely beautiful songs and raucous vocal performances, and that's worth a lot. Prime Disney feature animation is deserving of one's time, even without the support of a well-composed story. As a whole, well, there's a reason this found such widespread appreciation as a head film. Nice to gaze at, but the viewer must provide their own context.
Lewis Carroll really did provide Walt Disney with a veritable Aladdin's cave of delights to work from with for this hugely entertaining and colourful adaptation of his 'The Adventures of Alice in Wonderland' stories. From the start with the 'White Rabbit' she has adventures, mishaps and an a-maze-ing time meeting the 'Mad Hatter' the centipede; talking roses; the mischievous 'Cheshire Cat'; a truly surreal tea party, and of course the 'Queen of Hearts' as bonkers and over-the-top as ever the author could have imagined - you sure wouldn't want to be a flamingo at her court! The whole thing makes no sense at all, really - so don't go looking for any logical structure or story narrative - there isn't one. Oliver Wallace's cracking score lost out for the Oscar to 'An American in Paris' but is still, every inch, a winner...
An iconic and memorable adaptation of Lewis Carroll's Alice adventures. It plays around with the story but in a loving way, and the images of the characters it has produced are true to the illustrations from the book and iconic in their own way. Much like the book, its greatest strength and greatest weakness are the same: it's a directionless journey through episodic events of madness, each fascinating in their own way but adding up to a strange broken whole. The film tries to streamline the journey a bit, and still capture the magic, and is undoubtedly a success.
A good movie. Characters sympatics and beautiful. But history of movie don´t uunderstand
Yes white rabbit.And a whole new world of lovable charactres such as Tweedle dam,the mad hatter and the Queen.Nice music too.I first saw it in RAI UNO in italian and I loved it.Give it a chance.
This is my favorite Disney movie and I've seen most of them. It's a classic. Wonderfully weird. The Mad Hatter is great. The March Hare is great. Alice is great. Cheshire is great. The Queen of Hearts is a wonderfully comical villain. I probably like this more than I should, but whatever.
A true Disney classic anamazing movie that is so fulfilling i feel i dont even have to read the book that was wrriten a lot time before this came out.!!! Also some rly Nice Songs in there about feeling weird and left out, i rly liked those
Alice in Wonderland is one of my favourite stories and has been since I was a kid. This Disney Classic brings Wonderland to life in a truly nonsensical way, which helps you fall in love with the absurdity this tale evokes. Alice falls through the rabbit hole and is thrust into an Adventure all the while attempting to find The White Rabbit and finding out why he is late!Kids and adults alike will fall for the madness of Wonderland and it's crazy cast of characters... An adventure for all the family!
I always loved this movie, it's so charmingly weird and cool, I've still never seen anything else quite like it. It's the first version of the Alice in Wonderland story that I ever saw so as far as the tale goes, this movie is my jam! There's so much oddball yet lovable charm to this picture and it's got so many scenes moments and characters that forever stuck quite strongly in my young mind, like the rather grim rhyming nonsensical tale of the Walrus and the Carpenter, the pompous caterpillar's elocution lesson and multicoloured hookah pipe smoke, the freakout of the sleepy doormouse, the sea of tea right near the end, when the Cheshire Cat unravels himself and leaves just his grinning teeth - my favourite spectacle though is the enchanting heart motif of the Queen's hedge maze and of her multitudes of meticulously animated card soldiers, I just love the way they scatter and fold as they move, having the physics of real playing cards, it's a phenomenal feat of animation just how amazing they look! The entire film is a lovely visual marvel to watch, and you can spot something new you like every time. It's truly bizarre and nonlinear but it's also for me enthralling and fascinating to watch, which is what makes it also magical. It moves itself along at such a breezy yet nonstop pace, except for the moving sequence where Alice gets herself lost in a more spooky corner of Wonderland and all the colour and music becomes muted and she despairs in a lonely spotlight for a moment. That's a very moody and saddening scene, it's made me teary-eyed before, she's so alone in that moment. I love it though because everything else in the movie is build around the frivolous whimsy but that part is all about the emotion of her situation, it's so curious how the strange creatures that are silently watching her from the shadows begin to vanish as she comes to the realisation that a land of wonders may not be what she wanted after all and that maybe she should learn to take the adult advice that she's given once in a while... Brilliantly done scene, I think it adds a lot to the movie all on its own. I love the carefree Cheshire Cat and how he's mischievous and kind of ominous at the same time, and his utter disregard for the Queen's rules made for one pricelessly funny scene! I love about this movie I also love the monstrous Queen who's clearly a few cards short of a deck, She's simply epic and the voice actress gave a hysterically thunderous performance! She's the scariest thing in Wonderland and brings the impetus that makes it so that Alice has to make it back to reality. I actually do like the way that several of the residents of colourful Wonderland are quite aggressively mean jerks towards sweet inquisitive Alice, particularly the snobby flowers who are all beautiful but unfortunately have downright stinky personalities! Poor Alice can't ever take enjoyment from the wonder all around her because she's being yelled at and manhandled every two minutes! Whole lotta downers on her little 'trip.' So did you ever see an Alice? If not then you really should because if you don't care for it from a story standpoint it still has tons of artistic touches and visual flair poured into it that it's still awesome to get into to this day, and I see no reason why it will ever lose that. I will always love this beautifully surreal dreamlike adventure, to me it's one classic that positively has it all. 'And the King.'
It was all a dream? I suspected as much, but that makes the movie seem rather irrelevant.
This Disney animation follows Alice, a girl whose mind wanders as she as her aunt reads to her. She says she would prefer a world where nothing makes sense. Later as she walks along the river with her cat she sees a white rabbit wearing a waistcoat. She follows in into its rabbit hole and enters a strange world. It is a world where consuming certain things make you shrink and others make you grow to a great size. She also meets a succession of strange characters; Tweedledum and Tweedledee, who insist on telling her the tale of the Walrus and the Carpenter; the Cheshire Cat; a smoking caterpillar; the March Hare, Mad Hatter and the Dormouse and finally the dangerous Queen of Hearts.It must be stated that he animation in this film is top notch; it is hard to believe in this day of CGI that every frame was drawn by hand. There is constant movement; often featuring many different things in motion at once. However the story isn't the strongest; it feels as if Alice is just moving from one character to the next; each providing a song that isn't that memorable. There are highlights of course; thankfully one of those is the end section when Alice meets the Queen of Hearts and most of the characters we have met are reunited in a trial scene. This provides a degree of tension but nothing that isn't suitable for younger viewers. Overall I wouldn't consider this to be one of Disney's finest but it is still worth watching if you enjoy classic animation.
Alice In Wonderland is such an incredible film!!! A great cast along with the storyline. It has laughter throughout the film, curiosity, love, weirdness and beautifully made!!! A+++ Film. I WOULD HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS FILM TO ANYONE!!!!!
I always loved Alice in Wonderland growing up but would not have pegged it as a favorite. Now that I have a 3 year old daughter, I'm rediscovering a lot of classics with her. In a world of generic plots in great, but empty films like Frozen, some of the classic Disney films like Beauty and the Beast, Litte Mermaid and Alice in Wonderland stand out and especially Alice in Wonderland!The songs are all creative, catchy and timeless, even down to whatever the Cheshire Cat is humming. The ambience to each song can be either happy or creepy but very original and appropriate. The foley work is amazing and everything about the sound can give you a full or empty feeling I. The lot of your soul like no other film I have ever seen.The animations are amazing and there is great detail in even small moments like the Mad Hatter pouring tea into his shirt and it coming out through his sleeve into the cup (the entire tea party scene is a marvel of fun animation detail).The backgrounds and character designs are unique, creative and absolutely inspired.Unlike the dreary and confusing live action remake, this excursion into a world of nonsense is fun, frightening and beautiful!
Long before animation pioneer Walt Disney wowed the cinema-going world with Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs - one of the first feature-length animated films ever made - in 1937, the innovator was long dreaming of adapting Lewis Carroll's books Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and its follow-up Through the Looking Glass. He made a short adaptation called Alice's Wonderland, which mixed live-action and animation, for the Laugh-O-Gram Studio in 1923, but never let go of the idea after the studio went bankrupt and he left for Hollywood. Disney's dream wouldn't be fully realised until 14 years after Snow White, when Alice in Wonderland was finally unveiled in 1951. The film flopped upon release, with audiences failing to be seduced by the many colourful yet incredibly weird characters on show, but through television screenings and subsequent revivals, Alice is now an established classic amongst Disney's animated classics.As her sister reads under a tree, the young Alice (Kathryn Beaumont) dreams of adventure, choosing to explore her own imagination rather than the tales told in books. As she sings by a riverbank, she spots a white rabbit (Bill Thompson) carrying a huge pocket watch. The White Rabbit is late for an important meeting and dashes off into a large rabbit hole. Ever curious, Alice follows him, eventually entering a world in which logic has no place, everything is backward, and everybody is ever so slightly mad. Her adventure into this strange new world leads her to the rather frightening identical twins Tweedledum and Tweedledee (both voiced by J. Pat O'Malley), a garden of singing flowers who soon reveal their weirdly fascist outlook, a hookah-smoking caterpillar (Richard Haydn), the mischievous Cheshire Cat (Sterling Holloway), and, of course, a truly mad tea party hosted by the Mad Hatter (Ed Wynn) and March Hare (Jerry Colonna). This bizarre world known as Wonderland seems to offer no way out, so Alice seeks help from the tyrannical and homicidal Queen of Hearts (Verna Felton), who has a fondness for removing heads.There is really no meaning or hidden depths to be found in Carroll's books, and Disney's adaptation is no different. It seems to exist simply as a celebration of the wonders of childish imagination and an opportunity for creative abandon. The result is a nonsensical story with little time for structure or purpose, but one that has stood the test of time through the wonderful characters it imagines. It's an often frustrating experience that offers little sense of direction, and I wouldn't be surprised if some younger viewers were put off by the narrative's excessive randomness or utterly terrified by some of the more sinister characters on show. Yet Disney knew exactly how he wanted to portray these characters, and backed by some stellar talent behind the microphone, Alice in Wonderland prevails as a series of memorable vignettes. The Mad Hatter and Cheshire Cat are now embedded into the fabric of pop culture, and that is mainly thanks to Disney and his team of animators. These are truly insane, even malevolent, characters, but Disney knows how to make them lovable, even when they are toying with our protagonist or leading her further into the madness. It's more a nightmare you can't wake up from than a children's adventure story, and while it won't top many people's lists of favourite Disney movies, there is a unique sense of wonder here that could not be found in Tim Burton's over-stylised 2010 remake.
Disney's 11th feature is about a girl called Alice who goes into a mysterious workd called wonderland. I used ro love this film as a kid and I still do, but for different reasons. K really love the animation and visual style. Disney's style seemed to change sliglty from Cinderella up to about Jungle Book. This era of disney is one of my favoute in terms of visual designs. I love the chsractrr Alice and all the strange characters. A must see disney film.
The original Requiem for a Dream.wild, weird, and wacky. 
I don't know what I'm saying anymore. Clearly, this film has messed up my brain, but definitely a cinematic masterpiece. +don't do drugs kids
Right up there with Cinderella! It's another classic Disney movie that I grew up watching!
While there may not be an exact story in the adaption of Alice in Wonderland it just throws so much delightful nonsense and madness at us that you can tell the effort made for it. Alice is trying to imagine how a world of her own would be and we get along for the ride of many really weird characters in her search for the white rabbit which is the only thing vaguely resembling a plot. So there is no exact plot, but more like a travel through different environments meeting different fantasy creatures which mostly come off as memorable. I dare say we all know the White Rabbit, Chesire Cat, Mad Hatter, March Hare, Tweedle Dee and Dum and Queen of Hearts. The rest is up for debate whether they are memorable not. Definitely the weirdest Disney movie, but I love it for that reason. The kind of aimless direction it has to it may turn some people off, but I think it's nice with a little trippy animation to play with the wonderful thing called imagination.
Yes, this movie has interesting concepts and nice animation, but I just find it really boring. I don't know why but somehow this movie doesn't really do it for me. Yeah, its a classic, but I don't like it.
This movie will be always the greatest in my opinion. even thought its gets dark at times it was still relatable. this movie is a classic from writing to the storyline and original characters. 10/10 a true classic from disney.
In 1951 Walt Disney and co. Surprised the masses by opting to adapt Lewis Carroll's hallucinogenic mind-trip Alice in Wonderland into an animated feature film.
More surprising still is great it turned out to be.Alice in Wonderland follows our young heroine bored of her monotonous everyday lessons. She spots on odd looking White Rabbit and follows it into a hole, she falls into Wonderland, a world of nonsense.
She finds herself lost and surrounded by a cast of bizarre and puzzling characters.Alice in Wonderland is top notch entertainment. The animation is gorgeous, even 67 years later.
The music is perfect, every song is great and memorable.
The characters are brilliant. Cheshire Cat, Mad hatter, March Hare, The Dodo Bird, the list goes on and on. Every character is fun and memorable.
This film is also filled with plenty of fun and quotable lines. I find that I quote fun lines from this film more then any other Disney film.On top of that they weave her hallucinogenic trip into an important life-lesson for children to learn.Personally I find this to be a perfect piece of animation.
The Bad:There's very little in terms of cohesive story in this movie. The 'plot' seems to simply be a series of strange short stories loosely connected. And the stories themselves are random bits of confusing nonsense. For people who enjoy abstract art, this may be enjoyable, but I don't particularly care for it. It also doesn't exactly stick close to the original book. Finally, I'd say the songs are mostly (with a few exceptions) forgettable.The Good: This is definitely a creative work. Probably as close to a dream-made-cartoon as you can get. The film is crammed full of memorable characters – from the Cheshire Cat, to the Queen of Hearts, to the White Rabbit. This movie also has the potential to invoke a lot of different emotions – sadness at the fate of the oysters; admiration and disgust at the flowers; frustration with the various direction-givers... The Mom view:This isn't a 'feel good' movie. It's not a sad movie, but you don't come away feeling like anyone learned anything, that anything was resolved, or that any new relationships formed. It was more like a bunch of animated shorts strung together with a repeating protagonist. I appreciate it as being original and very unique, and one that might find favor with kids who have a huge imagination. But it is kind of intense at times and definitely not for kids who need a concrete story-line. So I wouldn't go out of my way to have my kids see this while they are very young, but rather wait until perhaps later elementary level and view it as more a piece of art than a fun adventure. Not my favorite Disney animated movie, but not horrible either.
A classic retelling of Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland, this is one of the strangest films in Disney's catalog. I remember watching this as a kid, and thought it was really creepy for some odd reason. Maybe it was the Cheshire Cat with that grin of his or the Mad Hatter. Either way, Alice in Wonderland was one of those Disney films that creeped me out, and I thought it was a good film, but it kind of made me feel uneasy. This is nonetheless a good adaptation of a classic tale. This is a great film that might make you raise an eyebrow or two, however if you love Disney films, then this is yet another one worth checking out. Alice in Wonderland sure is an eccentric, surreal cinematic experience, but it's also one that you'll never forget. The film has colorful characters and a good cast. Like I said, Alice in Wonderland is weird, but it is definitely an entertaining film, one that will definitely appeal to Disney enthusiasts. Of all the films that Disney has put out, Alice in Wonderland may be the one that stands out the most. The sheer eccentricity of the film has made its reputation secure among fans of Disney. The film is definitely out of this world and very different from others in Disney's past. For what it's worth, this is still a must see film if you want to check all the essential Disney classics, as this is one of the most memorable of them all. Not the most perfect film that Disney has made, but definitely a stunning ride nonetheless.
I have already watched Alice in Wonderland once and I think it is a good movie. I was surprised to see that the flowers don't know what a girl is. Alice's cat, Dinah, is so cute! My favorite part was when Alice met the caterpillar. My least favorite part is when Alice's sister was reading to her because it was boring. The book is so different from the movie, because there was no second part. I liked the book way better because it is much more detailed. The movie was about Alice falling asleep, and finding a white rabbit. Then she follows him into a tale of a time. Alice meets strange creatures in her journey, like Tweedledee and Tweedledum, the Mad Hatter, the March Hare, the door mouse, the white rabbit, or the Cheshire Cat. The funniest part of the movie, was when the glasses creature landed on Alice's nose. I think the mirror is a team with the glasses. Another funny part was when the Queen of Heart's underpants showed. A scary part in the movie was when the umbrella birds glared at Alice. A weird creature had a bird's head and the body of a cage, and I think its children live in there. This creature eats its children in order to get them into the cage.
When I was six, I had my tonsils out. The anaesthetist used ether and I hallucinated. My mother had bought me two comic books. One was Krazy Kat and the other the Disney 'Alice in Wonderland.' If you wanted something to set you up for delirium try those on for size. When I finally saw the movie, I was reminded of those subconscious images. This is an excellent animated film. I love its hard edge and portrayal of Lewis Carol's characters. It also features some wonderful songs. The Queen of Hearts is maniacal and the Mad Hatter diabolical. All the images of random craziness are in here, brought to life with artistic skill, making them unforgettable images.
Why does Alice look like she's about 11 or 12 or something? She's supposed to be seven in the book and here, though this is common in Alice in Wonderland adaptations for Alice to look like a preteen or a teenager but she looks like a pre-teen and therefore, acts more mature.I don't know if this was relevant in the book but I found Alice to be too feisty, like the typical pre-teen disrespectfulness, though it may have something to do with her boredom, imagination, and desire for adventure.The character design for Alice is cute but her voice acting didn't sound English enough, she's supposed to be an English girl but if it sounds too English, it would be hard to hear what she's saying. I think the actress has been to America though. They were originally supposed to get Margret O' Brien for the role, but she's not British and when she tried to do a British accent, it didn't work well for me.
***SPOILERS***I've never written a review for a movie before on this site, but I felt I should for this one.I'll admit, I used to like this movie when I was a kid, but when I grew older, I realized I was liking it less, and now I can say that I don't like this movie, and don't understand why so many people love it.Why don't I like it? Well, because it's just so mean-spirited in tone and spends pretty much its entire run time treating Alice like garbage for no reason, over and over again, in an attempt to teach that you should be careful what you wish for. Now, teaching that I don't have a problem with. It's just that there have been countless other projects (films or shows) that teach that same moral, and they were not nearly as cruel as this movie was.The thing is, pretty much everything in this movie seems to conspire to torture Alice, either physically or emotionally, or both. Pretty much every character is a total jerk, to Alice and to each other: the Mad Hatter and March Hare play around pretty cruelly with her, the flowers kick her out of their garden, rather meanly, when they think she's a weed (even though they have a dandelion, which IS a weed, in their garden, those hypocrites), the Caterpillar is also rather unpleasant, having a temper that makes his scenes painful to watch (am I supposed to be laughing at Alice choking on smoke? Well, I'm not!), and the Queen of Hearts has the worst temper of the whole film, and even wants Alice dead, for no real reason.But then there's the Cheshire Cat, who seemed to go out of his way to make things worse for Alice, as it's his fault she ends up on trial, and it's also his fault that everyone in Wonderland tries to kill her! I'm not exaggerating when I say that this is the Cheshire Cat at his worst!But one of the biggest issues I have with this is that I feel like the movie is putting the Wonderlanders in the right for how they behaved. At the very least, it didn't put them in the wrong, which was a big mistake on the part of Disney. Worse, when Alice tells the Queen off for her behavior near the end, you find it justified, considering how she was treated by everybody. But even Disney had to mess that up by having her shrink again, which lands her in trouble because she was standing up for what was right.What makes all this worse is that Alice did absolutely nothing to deserve the torment given to her throughout her journey. All she wanted was to do something more interesting than listen to boring history lessons. And for this she gets punished, because wanting to do something more interesting than listen to lessons automatically makes you bad, apparently. It also seems to be teaching some morals children shouldn't learn, like, as someone else pointed out, dream worlds aren't happy and fantastical , but rather cruel and mean- spirited. (I know most of the film was a dream, but that kind of made it worse because that seems to teach that dream worlds are mad.) Also that it's OK to treat others badly if they're different from you or if you find it fun, and that you will only regret it if you stand up for what's right.I will admit, I do like some things about this film, like the animation is great as always (this is Disney, so what can I say?), I like almost all the songs in the film, as they're fun to listen to and well-written, and the beginning and very ending are pretty nice. I also did like a few characters, like of course Alice, but I also like the White Rabbit, the Dodo, the Dormouse, and the Doorknob, and I also find Tweedledee and Tweedledum kind of funny. These are my reasons for not giving the film only one star. If it wasn't for these elements, I probably would have given this film a 1. So yeah, I gave this three stars because there are some good things in it, but to me, the bad things far outweigh those.So bottom line, I don't like this film. I actually find it one of the worst Disney films of all time, and probably THE worst Disney film made while Walt Disney was still alive. I just don't get why it's so loved, especially since there are other projects out there that too are mean-spirited, but not nearly as much as this one is, and yet those get attacked while this gets a free pass. In fact, I don't think I ever will understand it. I just know that this is definitely not something I'd ever watch again if I was offered things I like. I guess I'll have to wait to see a truly great animated adaptation of the great book 'Alice's Adventures in Wonderland' (yes, I like the book; at least it's not as cruel as this movie), because, to me, this one was just bad.
Alice is a daydreaming young girl. She finds learning poems and listening to literature boring. She prefers stories with pictures and to live inside her imagination. One day, while enduring just such a poetry reading, she spots a large white rabbit...dressed in a jacket and carrying a large watch. He scurries off, saying he's late, for a very important date. She follows him through the forest. He then disappears down a rabbit hole. Alice follows, leading her to all manner of discoveries, characters and adventures.A wonderful, imaginative adaptation of Lew Carroll's famous novel. Captures well the sheer randomness, weirdness and wonder of Alice's adventures in Wonderland.Great animation, even by today's standards. But, then again, this is a Walt Disney production, so that is a given.Voices are spot-on. Kathryn Beaumont, at 12/13 years old, shines as Alice. Disney must have liked her performance too - she provided the voice of Wendy in Peter Pan, two years later.The quintessential adaptation.
Walt Disney's Alice in Wonderland is in a category all of its own. Disney's spectacular vision and range is showcased in his 13th animated feature. With a little help from the Lewis Carroll series for which it was adapted from, this film's surrealism makes for a completely unique entry in the Disney pantheon. It's like the black sheep. To this day, they haven't made another one like it.The story isn't one in the linear sense, but more of a compendium of unrelated series of events. But they all lead to a common goal.Alice, herself, has some radical ideals when it comes to the world around her, and faces hostility from the adults in her life. But she learns her imagination is mild in comparison to the oddities of Wonderland. She ventures off to this magical world, only to discover she isn't very welcome. She has a terrible time and no one wants her to be there. And at moments, she finds herself questioning the silliness of the realm, appropriating her mindset to that of her closed-minded mother back home.The depth of Alice is deeper than most realize. It's subtle, but her attitude is brilliant commentary on contrasting our own independent philosophies with those that we're raised on.Surprisingly, the film is not as dated as you would think. Some of the humor holds up well compared to today's standards.Considering the very short runtime, the songs are in abundance and create a high ratio to the non-singing scenes. And naturally, there are one or two weaker tunes, but most of them are ear-worm classics. At 75 minutes, we spend enough time in Wonderland to warrant a complete story. Or collection of events. Alice in Wonderland is meant to be episodic. And it's very dark and deranged at times, too. While many people find that those things make the movie harder to warm up to, it's actually part of what makes it one of my favorite Disney films from the Walt era. An underrated piece of cinema.Twizard Rating: 95Read more at www.TheTwizard.com
Walt Disney's Alice in Wonderland is in a category all of its own.
Disney's spectacular vision and range is showcased in his 13th animated
feature. With a little help from the Lewis Carroll series for which it
was adapted from, this film's surrealism makes for a completely unique
entry in the Disney pantheon. It's like the black sheep. To this day,
they haven't made another one like it.The story isn't one in the linear sense, but more of a compendium of
unrelated series of events. But they all lead to a common goal.Alice, herself, has some radical ideals when it comes to the world
around her, and faces hostility from the adults in her life. But she
learns her imagination is mild in comparison to the oddities of
Wonderland. She ventures off to this magical world, only to discover
she isn't very welcome. She has a terrible time and no one wants her to
be there. And at moments, she finds herself questioning the silliness
of the realm, appropriating her mindset to that of her closed-minded
mother back home.The depth of Alice is deeper than most realize. It's subtle, but her
attitude is brilliant commentary on contrasting our own independent
philosophies with those that we're raised on.Surprisingly, the film is not as dated as you would think. Some of the
humor holds up well compared to today's standards.Considering the very short runtime, the songs are in abundance and
create a high ratio to the non-singing scenes. And naturally, there are
one or two weaker tunes, but most of them are ear-worm classics. At 75 minutes, we spend enough time in Wonderland to warrant a complete
story. Or collection of events. Alice in Wonderland is meant to be
episodic. And it's very dark and deranged at times, too. While many
people find that those things make the movie harder to warm up to, it's
actually part of what makes it one of my favorite Disney films from the
Walt era. An underrated piece of cinema.Twizard Rating: 95Read more at www.TheTwizard.com
Alice in Wonderland is one that critics, audiences, and I remember for being one of the more ambitious and unorthodox concepts for an animated movie, but of course, Disney could make it happen. With sheer craziness occurring across most of the film, intrigue is very strong but on some levels gives way to filler. The filler is in between, mostly being a bore but offering some wild mind trips to nearly make up for it. Outside of the book, the plot is not highly engaging and left me pondering over highly irrelevant topics such as what I was proposing to do following the conclusion of the film. Overall, I appreciate the direction Disney was taking with this, and generally the ways that they succeeded overshadow the ways that they failed. Expect plenty of ups and downs when you, the reader, see this. Some things will miss, a majority of the things will hit.
Classic Disney adaptation of Lewis Carroll's famous story may not please all purists but, for my money, it's the best film version of the story yet. For those who don't know the tale, it's about a young girl named Alice who follows a white rabbit down a hole and winds up in a strange world full of bizarre, colorful characters. As with most of the great Disney animated films from the Golden Age, two of the main pluses here are the lively songs and the gorgeous animation, with rich colors and some beautiful backgrounds. Of the songs, my favorite is 'All in a Golden Afternoon.' The movie's full of memorable characters like the Cheshire Cat, the White Rabbit, the Mad Hatter, and the Queen of Hearts. Terrific voice work from Kathryn Beaumont, Sterling Holloway, Richard Hayden, Ed Wynn, J. Pat O'Malley, Verna Felton, and many others. It's one of those movies everyone should see at least once, preferably when you're still young enough to be wowed by its charms. Like many others, I first saw it as a kid and it left a great impression on me. I still enjoy it as an adult, but on a different level.
Of the many adaptations of Lewis Carrol's novel that came out over the years, this one I consider to be very close in faithfulness to the source material. Kathryn Beaumont is really believable in the title role and you get the sense of wonder and magic going around from scene after scene advancements. So many characters to remember the most iconic for me are Tweedledum and Tweedledee with the crazy honking sounds they make while hitting each other, the Mad Hatter and March Hare with their insane tea party and the Cheshire Cat that keeps appearing and disappearing randomly. The music is well thought out, the animation is impressive for the time, and you get this feeling of excitement while traveling through Wonderland. Great family flick!
Alice in Wonderland is at the same both very untypical for a Disney film, yet at the same time exactly what Disney does well. What do I mean by that? Well, in a word, Alice in Wonderland is surreal. It follows no logic but its own, is not really a fairytale by any stretch of the word, is actually somewhat mean-spirited in tone and Alice as the main character doesn't really follow the Disney formula we've come to know.And yet, it functions so well precisely because it's a Disney film. The animation is gorgeous, reflecting the feel and mood of Wonderland perfectly with crooked angles, painfully bright colours and contrasts, fluid motion and some fantastic character designs. The music scenes are also done very well, though most of them are not just short, but really short. But, most importantly, Disney does weird magnificently, especially in those first few decades when Walt Disney himself was still alive. And this is his crowning achievement in that regard. It's fast, loose, bat guano insane, always changing rules, always ready to burst into a non sequitur, each less logical than the one before.And if that's your thing, then this is the perfect movie to check out. It doesn't have the grandeur and charm of the true Disney classics, but it has some of the most memorable characters in the whole Disney canon and as a whole is a fantastic romp unlike anything you're likely to see otherwise.
Alice in Wonderland is still an amazing experience. From the visual standpoint to to the experience of seeing Wonderland with your own eyes is simply breathtaking. This is actually I think my second favorite Disney movie, right after The Lion King and with good reason. This is a really crazy ride and it is one of those rare animated movies that (in my case at least) can make you feel sad and delighted almost at the same time. Alice in Wonderland is crazy, dark (but at the same time colorful), beautiful, sad (and also at the same time an amazing) experience that definitely deserves its status as a Disney Classic. A must own for any Disney Movie Collection!
In my opinion Disney really shined in this movie!! It's of their best efforts!! First of all I love the animation in it, and I also love the characters. This movie always puts me in a good mood, I have not seen the remake, just because it had Johnny Depp, and I don't like him. But anyways, the dialogue is smart and funny, and it's just a lot of fun to watch! I feel like both kids and adults can watch it, and enjoy the heck out of it! I like this a lot better than the lion king!! And that's not saying a lot cus I hated the lion king! But overall I couldn't be more impressed 10/10!! Seriously if you haven't seen this classic Disney animation, see it now, today, this second!!
Somehow 'Alice in Wonderland' has attained classic status and many folks seem to like it. However, I really don't know how any film based on the Lewis Carroll stories could be that entertaining--especially for kids. After all, the story is more like a drug-induced experience instead of having a lot of charm.So, if I am not at all excited about the story, that means I hate the film, right? No. You cannot hate a film which features such lovely animation and a few of the little vignettes. The mad tea party with 'A Very Merry Un-birthday' is enjoyable nonsense and a few of the characters scattered throughout the film are pretty nice. But if you compare this film to its contemporaries, such as 'Cinderella', 'Peter Pan' and 'Lady and the Tramp' it comes up wanting because of the story. Worth seeing perhaps but quite weak compared to most Disney films of the era.
Alice In Wonderland is a 1951 animated feature and is Disney's 13th in the Disney canon. The story is about a girl called Alice who is at the park with her mother as she is reading Alice a book. But when Alice sees a white rabbit who is saying im late, im late, im late she decides to follow him into the rabbit hole. But when she does,she ends up in an alternative universe where she meets whacky charcthers including Tweedledum and Tweedledee as well as a cat named Cheshire Cat that can hide(like a chameleon) and the red queen who hates white roses,she only likes red roses. Can Alice ever get back to her own world,OR is she actually daydreaming about the whole thing this whole time.Overall I thought it was a fairly good movie,its not one of my favourite movies but I was glad I got it on DVD as I never seen it in a long time. I notice though that A lot of Walt Disney's movies before his death in 1966 has charcthers smoking pipes as this indicated that Walt was a heavy smoker back in the day and that's why,whereas now you don't see any charcthers smoking. The animation is flawless,the charcthers are engaging and whacky and the plot is good but when it came to the end I was like wait a minute you mean to tell me she was hallucinating this whole time.Overall im giving it a 6.
Alice in Wonderland is a really great movie with a very well developed storyline and a good voice cast as well.The movie is very quick and enjoyable,it isn't even ninety minutes long so it is not very time consuming,but it's a Disney classic that will be greatly remembered for many years to come.It is beautifully animated and still holds up very well even today,it is really colourful and I just got a very relaxed feeling as I watched it,it totally took me away from the real world,there are many unforgettable characters in this and it is certainly the best adaptation of this children's book.Fun for the whole family and a must see for animation lovers,I would recommend Alice in Wonderland to anyone looking for a good family film. A young girl tumbles down a rabbit role and embarks on a fantastic adventure.
An excellent film adaption of Lewis Carroll's story. This is one of my favorite Disney movie animations. I loved it as a child and I love it as an adult. Outstanding artwork and colorful, lively characters.I will admit it: I am a sucker for Cheshire Cat, The White Rabbit, and Caterpillar but all of these cartoon characters a wonderful, delightful and lovable - yet very strange indeed.Disney's Alice in Wonderland is a timeless masterpiece that is worth watching. If you enjoyed this movie you might like Disney's 'Cinderella', 'Sleeping Beauty' or 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs'.10/10
Walt Disney was looking to adapt Lewis Carolls books (Alice's adventures in Wonderland and Through the looking-glass) into an animated feature for a long time. At the age of 21, Disney worked at the Laugh-O-Gram studio in Kansas City. This is where he was first introduced into the world of animation. The last short he worked on was called 'Alice's Wonderland', which combined animation with live-action, as a girl named Virginia Davis featured in an animated environment. After the short was finished, the studio went bankrupt in July of 1923. Walt and his brother Roy formed the Walt Disney Company and released a series of shorts called 'The Alice Comedies', which were also a combination of live-action and animation and also featured Virginia Davis as Alice. In 1936, Disney released a Mickey Mouse short called 'Thru the mirror', resembling the Alice stories.It's safe to say that Disney was inspired by Lewis Carolls tales. There were even plans to have Alice in Wonderland be the first full-length animated feature, but those plans were put on hold and Disney decided to go with Snow White in 1937. But after Cinderella was big success, Disney had enough money to finally release Alice in Wonderland in 1951. Was Alice in Wonderland successful? Not exactly. The film disappointed in the box office and the response from critics was mostly negative. During Walt's lifetime, Alice in Wonderland was never re-released in theaters. It wasn't until 1974 that the company pulled the trigger and re-released Alice in Wonderland in theaters. This time, the film struck a chord with audiences and critics alike and became a lot more successful than it was during its initial run.Alice in Wonderland is perhaps the most bizarre Disney animated feature. The atmosphere in the film is rather dark and gloomy. Alice(voiced by Kathryn Beaumont) stands out as being the only normal person in a very strange world. That's why her character isn't very interesting at times, but I think Kathryn Beaumont does a great job in developing some character for Alice. Throughout the film, Alice tries to find out what's right and what's wrong in an entertaining way. There are a lot of interesting characters in wonderland. The Mad Hatter(voiced by Ed Wynn) and the March Hare(voiced by Jerry Colonna) are celebrating their un-birthday when Alice meets them, which results in a hilarious scene. The Cheshire Cat is amongst the strangest creatures in the history of Disney, but he has some funny lines. The White Rabbit(Voiced by Bill Thompson) is the reason Alice ended up in Wonderland. She tried to follow him because of her curiosity. She wants to find out what the talking rabbit is up to, but he always claims he's too late. Throughout the film, Alice continues to follow him. Alice ends up in a maze where she meets a bunch of talking cards, who are painting the roses red. The Queen of Hearts(voiced by Verna Felton) accuses Alice of painting them red. The queen is absolutely insane, which makes her a fantastic villain. At one point, she can be calm and collective and then she suddenly bursts out in frustration and malice. She screams 'off with their heads' to one of the cards and Alice, which is actually rather grim for a Disney film. Alice manages to escape Wonderland when she convinces herself to awake.This Disney feature is like a fast train. The scenes keep coming and there are a lot of interesting characters involved. The visuals are very intriguing and abstract. The songs aren't very memorable like they are in other Disney classics, but they are still a lot of fun. Alice herself isn't very interesting, but Kathryn Beaumont gives a solid performance. The entire presentation of the film is strange compared to other Disney films and isn't based on a fairy-tale, which is probably the reason it didn't perform well in the box office during its release. Luckily, a lot of people started to appreciate this fantastic piece of animation and it's known as a classic today.
There's no secret to anyone that I watched a lot of Disney animated movies when I was a kid (well except for Home on the Range....I will talk that movie when the time comes). I watched them repeatedly and still have fun with them...this movie is no exception.The story (of course that we all know today) is about a girl named Alice who grows bored of listening to her older sister reading aloud from a history book of someone that I just don't care about (sorry, Brits). Alice tells her kitten Dinah that she will live in a nonsensical land called Wonderland. After she daydreamed about it, she spot a rabbit called..White Rabbit, who's late for something that has to do with the Queen of Hearts's stuff or ceremony. Alice and her kitten follows the white rabbit and Alice goes inside the rabbit hole and falls into a place called (you guessed it) Wonderland. A place that's so weird that it's better not to explain it at all. (Spoilers!) However, all of this was just a dream from Alice, and she, Dinah, and her older sister just go went back home and it's obviously time for tea.The way they show Wonderland was very, and I mean very strange. There's a Dodo bird that sorta looks like Christopher Columbus, fishes that have no problem breathing without water when doing this dance, Tweedledee and Tweedledum telling a story about the Walrus and the Carpenter, a short guy with a hat and his rabbit celebrates tea party and 'unbirthday' all the time, the Queen of Hearts and Alice herself playing croquet by using a flamingo as a mallet and a hedgehog as the ball, and there's this caterpillar, and and and......IT'S WEIRD!! But you know what, it's so much fun because of that.The animation is colorful and top notch, despite (again) the weird imagery it had. The songs are catchy. The voice acting is great as every Disney animated movie out there. And the pacing is wacky but necessary.But, there were some flaws. One being that the Alice character wasn't all that convincing. The running time is too short. And some of the weird imagery may be too much for my taste.But in all seriousness, the movie is still a lot of fun and it's easily recommended. For those who want to know about my thoughts about Tim Burton's version of Alice of Wonderland, I thought it was decent but nothing special, however I'm obviously gonna do a review of it but for now, you'll just had to wait. This movie though weird, is a fun ride for your kids and yourself.Score: 8.7/10
Let's get something straight, I am certainly not a Disney fan. Disney is usually conforming, at times racist and sexist, complete trash. However, Alice in Wonderland, filmed in 1951, colored my whole childhood and I still remember it today. Lots of kids have imaginary friends, role-play with dolls, teddy bears, paint pictures of made-up far away lands... but as we get older unfortunately we have to leave these creations behind for the adult future. Alice, stuck listening to lessons from her teacher outside one day, gets fed up with studying and reading and lets her mind drift. Suddenly she notices a rabbit, dressed in human clothes, and she curiously chases it, along with her beloved pet kitten Dinah. The rabbit leads Alice falling down a rabbit hole (often a phrase used to describe mental illness), and goes into a strange exotic little kingdom called Wonderland, where animals can speak and flowers can sing and be more snobby than a room full of ladies at a Tupperware party. Alice enjoys herself until things begin to get crazy, and she meets the friendly but mischievous Cheshire Cat, who offers to help her get home. lice in Wonderland has frequently been used as a plot for games and films portraying mental insanity. Go Ask Alice (1973) features a teenage girl in the hippie era who tries L.S.D. and gets hooked. Alice, Madness Returns is a bizarre video game where Alice is a brunette teen rather than a blonde little girl, and she wanders through scary mental hospitals and fights creatures. Lucid by Alice Dawn is about a teen and her imaginary world she makes up to escape from her many psychiatric appointments. Resident Evil (2002) has often been believed to be an allegory for Alice in Wonderland. Nevertheless, this is one version that hasn't been tainted by this plot. The real plot of Alice is that she is trying to make sense of the adult world, which is nonsense to children, whereas a child's imaginative world is nonsense to adults. The voices were great choices, although Alice sounds like she's in her twenties. I loved the strange little creatures that followed Alice throughout the film, birds with umbrellas for bodies and dogs made of brooms tied together, animals made of household items. The Cheshire Cat was voiced by the man who voiced the beloved children's 'Winnie the Pooh' cartoons. The mad hatter, mad from mercury poisoning, was a very likable character, as was his friend the March Hare... well, every character was likable, even the cunning Red Queen, a fat woman with a short temper and a love for chopping heads off. The film isn't really violent, it's a great film for children and adults alike, anyone who feels like they want to escape into their own imagination.
Often criticized for being too 'American,' this film was far from it. Not only did it respect John Tenniel's original illustrations and pull from the most iconic scenes in Lewis Carroll's novels, but the masterful animation brought the imagery to live in a creative fashion. A film that keeps you smiling from beginning to end, its lack of definite plot is greatly overshadowed by the smooth flow and easygoing entertainment experienced while viewing. Its playful line-up of songs, partially based or inspired by Carroll's own genius poetry, greatly adds to it. Alice is simply an incredible character that captures purity, creativity and humour through simplicity. If only this film were longer.
Lewis Carroll's classic fantasy novel got the Disney makeover back in the early 50s as one of the early Disney animated features. It certainly isn't a dead-on accurate representation of the novel, but if like me you've never read the original story then there is a lot to get out of this version. All the unique characters are played up to their fullest potential and the use of animation gives to film added amounts of creative that are utilised well. Alice is not as popular as the other Disney films from that time and, though it is understandable, that is somewhat unfair on the film.Alice is an easily bored and overly curious girl who one afternoon sees a White Rabbit in a hurry and follows him down a rabbit hole. It is no ordinary hole though as Alice quickly discovers that she is in Wonderland were everything is not as it seems. At first Alice wants to know why the Rabbit is in a hurry but after meeting many of the strange people who inhabit Wonderland she just wants to go home, but only after meeting the deranged Queen of Hearts. The story of the movie works very much in a road-trip style. Alice meets a character, something unusual occurs and then she moves on. Normally this gets repetitive, but here I find that it works very well. It makes sense that Alice meets someone new as she moves further along and the encounters are always a ton of fun. There is a lack of development, yet it doesn't affect the film too much due to this stop-start format.What really makes the film are the colourful and interesting characters. Alice herself is a very likable heroine and is played in a nicely realistic fashion, she is kind and thoughtful but has her limits and can get annoyed. It would be easy for her to get lost in the madness, but the excellent design and Kathryn Beaumont's enthusiastic voice acting add to the role immensely. Disney regular Bill Thompson perfectly voices the always hurried White Rabbit, who we are dying to know the reasons for him being so 'late'. The Cheshire Cat is a lot of fun thanks to the fact that his intentions always change, he is the right amounts of slightly creepy and weirdly funny. Sterling 'Winnie the Pooh' Holloway adds an eerie quality to the role. The eloquent Caterpillar is very enjoyable too.The Mad Hatter and March Hare are my favourite characters. There is such a wacky sense of humour and incredible enjoy brought to the screen when they are around. The fact that their Tea Party involves 'un-birthdays' and smashing up watches kind of says it all. Ed Wynn and Jerry Colonna clearly put their all into the voices too. The Queen of Hearts is another funny Disney villain. She shouts almost everything she says and blows her top if everything isn't as it should be. This of course leads to a lot of funny tantrums and destruction.I think a strong reason why the film wasn't well received is because of how crazy and slightly sinister the characters, except Alice, actually are. Yet I feel that this gives the film some uniqueness in similar vein to Pinocchio, in which most of the characters were menacing. All you have to do is look at the characters actions, the Cheshire Cat toys with Alice, the Hatter & Hare effectively shun her, the Caterpillar gets angry at her very easily and the Queen just wants to cut off heads. I think this explains why certain people gravitate away from Alice, the fact there is only one real protagonist may help to explain it. But as said I personally like this as I think it offers something different to the usual Disney features. The animation is excellent as you'd expect and the unique features of Wonderland are given added vibrancy, in some areas it is possibly the richest usage of colour in any Disney feature. It's interesting to note that a lot of the backgrounds are dark, this is a great effect as the colours almost leap off the screen when they are presented. It makes very little detail standout more and the character designs themselves all look fantastic. The animation in general some of Disney's most surreal and it is noteworthy for that reason alone. The music is very good too. Each character seems to have their own little tune and they are all pleasant to listen to, whilst songs like 'I'm Late' are amusing pieces that add to the film.Seeing as the film is only 75 Minutes long there is a lot of substance to it. Though it moves in quick manner, enough time is spent with the characters to understand them and the fact that it manages to pack in so many personalities is impressive in itself. One aspect that is iffy is that the film can seem a bit rushed in certain areas, but when you consider how much is going and trying to be fit in that becomes less of a concern. I'm also unsure how much replay value the film has, as it is certainly more of an engaging film if you watch it every so often. Overall I do really enjoy Disney's version of Alice in Wonderland, it remains the best version of the story to this day. Its strengths are extremely well done. The characters themselves are really memorable as well as out of the ordinary and the animation is amongst the richest that Disney has ever put to screen. I still think that Alice in Wonderland is still a little under-appreciated compared to its contemporaries, like Cinderella, and that may be for its unusual tone. Yet I think that the bizarre tone and crazed characters give it the unique edge. Alice is enjoyable on the surface and an achievement beneath as well.
Alice in Wonderland is a challenging story to adapt. Here it's been animated and Disneyfied. For most parts it works really well whilst giving us an iconic Mad Hatter and Queen of Hearts.The film does well in getting into the spirit and imagination of the Lewis Carroll's tales.The animation is used to evoke the slightly psychedelic spirit of Alice's adventures and vivid use is made of the animation with characters such as the Cheshire Cat.Of course animation should lend itself well here but the voice work is also excellent as it fits with the characters very well such as the Cheshire Cat, March Hare and others.Even after sixty years there is much to enjoy in the zany animated adventures of Alice.
I happen to be a huge fan of this movie! 'Alice in Wonderland' is, in my opinion, one of Disney's best cartoons ever produced, as far as the animated features go. I do not enjoy it because of nostalgia, hell no! I like it because it has a good story, cool characters, nice art and animation, lavishing music, marvelous dialogue and voice acting by the actors, and of course, being based on one of my favorite stories. Sadly, this movie, as well as other Disney-related media, have been relegated to a children's marketing. And people need to stop being so ignorant in saying 'Disney is so childish!' Bullcrap, Disney is not exclusively for children! Besides, kids don't make them, for the most part. Adults direct, write, produce, animate, compose music for, and record voices for all of Disney's beloved cartoons. In my opinion, children under 6 years old should not watch Disney movies, shorts, and television shows. Disturbingly, children are watching such material at such a younger and younger age these days, I mean children as young as 18 months! This should also count for Mother Goose poems, fairy tales and other fantasy fiction that should not be be viewed or heard from anyone under 6 years of age. Even though, I admit that I've watched Disney movies as young as age 3, but I didn't pay to much attention to it anyway. Anyway, that is all I want to say! I just love 'Alice In Wonderland (1951)!'
Alice in Wonderland still seems young and fresh even if it's nearly 2014.Based on the famous book the girl Alice falls into a hole in a forest after chasing a rabbit.The girl meets many memorable characters on her journey.From talking flowers to other strange creatures.Also a hothead Queen too and her army of living cards.It takes more than one view to find all the hidden details.The movie is overly cute, but not in a bad way.Beside the cute characters and tea parties there are the Queen who shouts about beheading.There is something for everyone here from kids and adventure seekers to painters.Then I recommend Tim Burton's live action version, and also the G4 S2 opening of My Little Pony that are having the same feel good atmosphere.10/10
Walt Disney's animated version of the popular children's story by author Lewis Carroll is about a young girl named Alice, who is bored and restless, and also has quite a vivid imagination, as she sees a white rabbit holding a watch crying about how he's late, and following him into the Wonderland, a crazy place where she finds no end of trouble, being shrunk to tiny size, only to be restored to normal height, but running into nutty characters like Tweedledee & Tweedledum, the Mad Hatter and his wild Tea Party, the elusive Cheshire Cat, and finally the evil Queen Of Hearts, who wants Alice dead... Colorful film lacks a certain amount of warmth and charm, but is still entertaining.
Walt Disney's 11th full-length film, about the story of a little girl named Alice who fell into a rabbit hole and entered the world of the Topsy turvy, imagination and wonder, with characters based on author Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and its sequel, Through the Looking-Glass. It's a colorful movie that does not need a plot to follow since it, like the books, takes place in a dream. So, Disney decided to make it an all-around cartoon fest with oddball characters and crazy plot points like the Tea Party, Croquet Game and Courtroom Scene; it's basically about Alice's adventures in Wonderland as she tries to catch up with the White Rabbit, trying to find out where he was going. Along the way, she bumps into the oddball characters.This film will make you suspend reality and enter a trip to a make-believe warp zone. Aside from the somewhat boring and out-of-place flashback scene told by the Walrus character, this is a pretty fast-faced film with some memorable music, like 'Golden Afternoon' and 'The Unbirthday Song.' I loved Alice's portrayal in the movie - a prim but carefree girl with a slight English accent. And, the Cheshire Cat is my favorite. He seemed to be the only character 'real' enough to guide Alice throughout the dream. He is voiced by Winnie-the-Pooh actor Sterling Holloway.So, suspend your disbelief and a take a trip to Wonderland.Grade B+
I remembered my mom always putting this movie on for me when I came home from school when I was maybe 7 and younger. I absolutely loved and enjoyed this movie and still do. I can't wait to watch it again on Friday with my family :) You should really watch this movie if you haven't. The story is incredible to me. I wish I had an imagination like Alice. The hatter and the Cheshire cat.. <3 My friend's also enjoy this movie. Great memories. We watch it every time we have a sleep over. I guarantee you will enjoy this movie weather you are a young kid or an adult.I wish I could find the DVD to this movie. I can only find it on Netflix :P
After the success of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937) and many other animated films to come after it, there came a time when Walt Disney would adapt a famous story in his vision that would involve a much different tale. That story is Alice in Wonderland,...unfortunately, it may create some mixed results for various viewers. For the most part, this is based on the original story to begin with. If you don't like the original, you probably won't enjoy this either. I was on the fence for this even though I do support it more than I didn't enjoy it. But it still lacked a lot of what many people would consider a Disney classic.The story begins in the real world where Alice, a little girl is being a taught a history lesson from an adult. But Alice has other plans, she's too much into fooling around like a kid and not having to care about education and other important skills. She becomes bored and follows a rabbit yelling that he's late and thus begins her vertigo adventure into the world of wonderland. I think the term really should be called crazy-land or nonsense land because that's really what is the description of this place. There's nothing to gaze on in wonder about. The pace at which these inhabitants live is remarkably fast. Almost like they're all on a sugar rush. A lot of them are also very rude which is a bit strange for Disney.It doesn't last forever but the pace is very quick for about half the film and it can get extremely annoying to watch. It won't help that the main character, Alice, becomes fed up with everything around her as well. It's good character development but for me, if the main lead is frustrated, then so am I. If the lead is tired of its surroundings I will be too. This is mostly because the first half of the movie was all random occurrences. There didn't feel like much of a plot to begin with and by the end, my opinion had not changed. The point at which where viewers might change from annoyed to appreciating the cleverness of Disney's adaptation, is when Alice runs into the garden bed full of flowers. It'll be cool to see how Disney and Co. smartly marry the names of flowers and adjectives together. From there, viewers will finally be able to enjoy the zaniness that is the more popular characters like the Mad Hatter and the Cheshire Cat. Thankfully for them, they are given more charm than most of the other characters. But again, they're all a little too goofy to be liked all the time because even they become nuisances at some point.However, if there's something to give credit for, it's the animation and music - score wise. The soundtrack that has the musical numbers,... they were alright but there were only a few that were catchy like 'Painting the roses red' or 'The un-birthday song'. The animation though is as great as all the others are. The imaginative drawings and character design are extremely unique. Oliver Wallace, a composer for many other Disney films like Peter Pan (1953) and Lady and the Tramp (1955) did a good job at the score as well. Besides this, if there's one useful lesson learned from this movie, it's that being crazy can be funny but too much nonsense can dilute the experience.This is probably the most divergent of all Disney oldies. The animation and musical score are appreciated but the plot is seriously lacking along with very few likable characters with the rest being fairly rude. Even the few likable characters can get tiresome.
What a time to be a child! Today is so tainted with obviousness and technological abundance that the age of imagination seems long over. As a future father, I hope my child would walk on the edge of a sidewalk imagining it's a tightrope above a ravine, or avoiding the red paved stones that would be bottomless pits. I wish modernity would never destroy this treasure which is imagination, the only natural craving to never be fully satisfied.And Lewis Carrol's 'Alice in Wonderland' pushes this natural thirst for escapism to an overdose-like limit, featuring one of the richest and most colorful galleries of character in literature's history, so many peculiar creatures that have enriched our memories, from a wisecracking cat to a hurried rabbit, a gluttonous walrus or a tyrannous Queen. Just like 'The Wizard of Oz' or 'The Little Prince', we follow the journey of a child, embarked (or trapped) in a fantastic world where friendly and hostile encounters would provide valuable lessons. Both picaresque and coming-of-age stories, their timeless and universal appeal wakes up children's capability to learn from imagination, the closest form of philosophy for a child, the eternal dream of a world 'over the rainbow' or under a river, where dreams come true.And who was more entitled, skilled and anticipated than Walt Disney to adapt this literary exhilaration of imagination into a film to unfortunately meet with relative disappointment. Indeed, regardless of the film's initial intent, it obviously didn't succeed, and exploring the reasons of this mixed reaction made me wonder if the project wasn't doomed from the beginning. Most of the first Disney features, from Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' to 'Cinderella', were adapted from fairy-tale stories, short enough to leave room for new plot devices, artistic licenses, memorable songs or better characterizations of the villains and peripheral characters. Yet 'Alice in Wonderland' features so many characters that even a ratio of one-per-minute wouldn't have been enough to cover the 60-minute format, and it's such a classic of literature it inevitably compromised any attempt to deviate from the original story.I had the chance to grow up with the 80's animated series of 'Alice in Wonderland' and each episode was centered on a Wonderland character, including some that were absent from the film like the Duchess or Humpty-Dumpty. While the series-format fitted the episodic structure of the story (the tea party with the Mad Hatter and the March Hare, the Oysters' story, each had a specific episode dedicated to it) unfortunately, in the film, there was not enough time to generate an appeal. Much worse, through all her interactions, Alice was constantly abused, teased and tormented by wisecracking and snobbish creatures. Even the cute flowers who resurrected the magic of 'Flowers and Trees' started acting as pompous divas. And Alice's streak of bad luck didn't end there and went on and on until the climactic confrontation with the Queen, probably the only character with relative substance, even more than Alice.Alice is still an endearing heroine as she mirrors our child's fears and curiosities. We all imagined how it would feel be to be bigger and smaller, or been tempted to taste or drink some mysteriously appetizing food. It's still ironic that all through her adventure, she only becomes more annoyed and suspicious, as if the underlying lesson of her adventure was that sometimes, a nonsensical world could be as tough and rough as reality. After all, when there is no place for conventions, when un-birthdays are celebrated, it also conceals such positive aspects of real-life as good manners and courtesy. And if Dorothy came to the conclusion that 'there was no place like home', she would still have a soft spot for this wonderful world of Oz and the friends she met, while Alice would probably be traumatized by her trip in Wonderland..However, if the episodic structure and the characters' meanness seemed to have canceled the positive effect the film could have, time played like a solid ally and allowed the same kids who were puzzled by the film to appreciate its surrealistic aspect as adults. At the peak of the drug culture that prevailed in the late 60's and early 70's, the film met with a new public and garnered more positive reactions, admittedly opposite to the values for which Disney stood for but since when does Disney only appeal to children? And the enumeration of 'Alice'' flaws became totally pointless as soon as you regard the film as a surrealistic adventure, without purpose, where the only thrills come from literally wondering what comes after. Why does Alice follow the rabbit, if not because it's simply the seemingly linear structure of dreams as a series of episodes without a beginning (the Rabbit was already walking) and without an end, as suggested by the climactic chase in the maze. The poetry of dreams lies in their inner anarchy and total freedom.But I concede that the surrealistic aspect wouldn't necessarily make the film more enjoyable, it's still a little too zany and cacophonous. I had the same reaction while comparing two Bunuel movies: 'Un Chien Andalou' and 'L'Age d'Or' and wondering if a short story wouldn't better fit the dream-format. Maybe this is why Alice could have made a great animated series, even more since Disney make his debut through a live-action animated series inspired by Alice's adventure. We all enjoy a little trip sometimes, and maybe this is why the four minutes of 'Pink Elephants in Parade' in 'Dumbo' will forever be more unsettling, disturbing and memorable than 'Alice in Wonderland'.It's easy to speculate on the causes of the film's semi-success: too ahead of its time, not aimed for the right target, too unstructured or unfocused, there still is something undeniably appealing, if only on the imagery department and the gutsy deviation from the usual Disney material, and 'Alice in Wonderland' is still a wonder in the history of Disney's animated features.
After the huge success of Cinderella, they wanted to put out another movie and in the summer of 1951, they put out Alice in Wonderland, which did not do so well then.The story is about a girl named Alice that falls in a whole while following a White Rabbit. Tech hole leads her into a world called Wonderland. She then mets a bunch of characters and is in an adventure of a lifetime. The story can be very episodic and boring. For the entire movie, she meets a character, they say and/or act unusual and don't make sense, something wacky happens, and then she moves on, with those characters never to be seen again. The plot in this is not very strong at all.The characters are as flat and one dimensional as they can be, but I think they Re suppose to be like that. They are memorable though, everyone knows the Mad Hatter, the March Hare, Queen of Hearts, and of course the main character Alice. This story is not much about plot and character, which is a problem for me, but you mint still like it.The songs are not very memorable as well. I remember that down sound like the songs from other Disney films at the time, but I cannot label any of them. The animation is impressive as usual. It is in the same style as Cinderella, and the colours and contrast are extremely bold. The character styles are very good and detailed as well.If you like a whole lot of wackiness, and a story that is no much about story or character development, you will like it. This film is a bit different from the Lewis Carrol books, but if you like the books, give this movie a watch. If you like in depth movies with in depth characters, this movie is probably not for you
Alice in Wonderland (1951) *** (out of 4) Disney classic about teenaged Alice who follows a rabbit into a mysterious hole, which leads her down a big drop off and into the world of Wonderland. Once there Alice meets all sorts of strange characters as they lead her on an adventure like she's never experiences. There's no question that ALICE IN WONDERLAND deserves the 'classic' label but at the same time I think this is a lesser classic from the studio. I have one major problem with this film and it's the fact that it just never struck me as being all that magical or adventurous. If you're read any of the Alice books, seen any of the earlier or later films then you know there's quite a bit of magic going on in the stories but I don't think that comes across too well. Perhaps this is due to there simply being too many characters and none of the supporting ones really standing out among everything. Of course the Alice character is a great one as is the Mad Hadder and the rabbit but outside of these there are many supporting ones that just show up, have a few nice lines if that and then they're gone. I'd say the overall story has a somewhat strange mix and match going on as well with too many scenes that just feel out of place. Still, there's no question that the animation is downright beautiful and this is especially true once we get to all the vivid colors of Wonderland. Another major plus is that there are some pretty funny moments including the various scenes where Alice is either shrinking or growing too tall. The sequence where she gets stuck inside the small house is just priceless. ALICE IN WONDERLAND isn't flawless but there's certainly a lot of charm that helps keep it moving along.
Being a big fan of 'Alice', both the books and Disney's adaptation of the tale, I can see that there are several things in the movie that doesn't match up to the book. For example, the 'Unbirthday' song, although a very catchy and memorable song in the movie, has its own share of inaccuracy, as unbirthdays are not introduced by the Mad Hatter and March Hare, but by Humpty Dumpty in the original 'Through the Looking Glass', the sequel to 'Alice's Adventures in Wonderland' of 1865. As another example, the doorknob doesn't even exist in the books, but is a character created by Walt Disney, probably to fill in the gaps that Lewis Carroll would have filled in by his narration. If you think about it, the reason so many things are different is for time's sake, or for the fact that some things look better in books than they do in movies. In the books, Alice often goes off talking to herself about a subject for a whole two pages at a time, but this would look odd in a movie. As for the scene with the duchess and her baby (in this bit I'm assuming you've read the book), I personally think it would not end up looking as good in a movie. Although 'Alice' is very odd in itself, you can consider why Disney did not include these things so it wouldn't get to out of hand, and therefore confusing and perhaps a small bit exhausting to watch. Even if he was adapting a book, he needed his own personal touch on things, the one we are all so familiar with, the one that makes it so 'Disney.'As for one complaint I have seen among critics, concerning the fact that 'Alice''s animation is closer to the Disney cartoons than that of his movies, I say that after thinking about it, I honestly don't care. This wasn't something I noticed in particular, but when I consider it, the movie's entire nature screams cartoon. It's fun and vivid script and songs are perfect for the cartoon-based, bright animation. Back to the subject of the book relative to the movie, when watching the movie I honestly did not care. It was Wonderland, it was a good Wonderland and it was Wondrous enough for me, even if it may not have been word-for-word from Carroll's original version. Next time you read it, or when you first pick up the book, enjoy imagining the characters as the ones Disney provided. I can honestly say I enjoyed the book, even more than I would have normally, reading it with these images. Thinking of some of the other parts not included in the movie, I can admit that I prefer the movie without the Duchess, or the Mock Turtle, or the mouse at the beginning right before the Caucus Race. Disney has sparked imagination, brought a smile to my face, and, unlike many filmmakers' attempts (such as, I'd say, Burbank Films' version), has kept every last drop of, well, wonder, from the original story, and plunged it into his own take. The characters are fun and memorable, as well as the songs, score, scenes, and (often-quoted) lines. I would almost prefer visiting Disney's Wonderland to Carroll's, even though I am one for the original. So even though the version leaves out maybe half of the books, and twists the story a good bit, the magic is still there, and with this said, I think it's safe to say that this can be considered the best movie version out there, and Lewis Carroll himself would have approved in a heartbeat.
Alice in Wonderland is a movie that's different from the other Disney Classics. Instead of having a crazy character or two, everyone is crazy; maybe a physcopath (how do I spell this word?) would be a better world. Seeing this from an adult's point of view, this film teaches us that no wonderland is perfect; it's corrupt and strange and such. Utopia is the first word that comes to mind when watching this film or even thinking about it. Wonderland is portrayed as such a magical land with mythical characters with wacky things and all; it's not that way, it teaches us that even a 'wonderland' can be corrupt. It's sad, but true.I think it's very good. It's definitely more mature that some of the classics. unique characters, wonderful animation, great storyline, and a lot of peer pressure. To all the teenagers reading this, when a stranger or someone gave you 'eat/drink' me in something, imagine what Alice went though when she was pressured to do this. It might teach you to not take drugs or get drunk. Plus the many drugs and drug references in this movie. My friend told me this is a great movie after you've been through such and I find it kind of true. It's weirdly good in a way and fun too! There are 2 things to learn from this movie... 1)Wonderlands aren't what you expect to be 2)Peer Pressure is bad
I think it would be fair to say that the 1951 Disney animated film is most people's introduction to Lewis Carroll...while I blush to admit it, it was certainly mine. However, having read the books and seen various other adaptations of the stories of 'Alice,' I find that this one is vastly overrated.Before I go into the problems with this movie (for me), let me give the good things: first of all, the animation is simply superb, and Mary Blair's color styling and backgrounds give everything a very surreal, cartoonish look...indeed, this whole film feels more like a return to the original 'Silly Symphonies' for the sheer amount of 'cartoon logic' it packs into it, which, in its own unique way, actually heightens the absurdity of Wonderland and its many wacky denizens beyond what even Carroll and John Tenniel envisioned. The voice acting is superb, and the characters are well done: prior to this movie, I can't think of a single film that captured the characters so well. The 1933 film has...problems, the silent films, obviously, were silent, and there are two films before the 1951 movie that have been lost, so it's hard to count those, as I've never actually seen them, and, sadly, probably never will.Specific aspects of the characters never before transferred from the pages of the Charles Dodgson's work to film successfully are well defined: Alice's curiosity and innocence, the White Rabbit's impatience and neurosis, the Mad Hatter and March Hare's zaniness, the Queen of Heart's frightful temper, and the mischievous nature of the Cheshire Cat, just to name a few, are all well played, and the voice actors – for the characters I've listed, that means Kathryn Beaumont, Bill Thompson, Ed Wynn, Jerry Colonna, Verna Felton, and Sterling Holloway (who also appeared in the 1933 film) – are excellently picked.To be honest, it's hard for me to find anything particularly WRONG with this movie, other than the fact that it contains fewer characters from the stories than most people think, and the ones not present in this movie, while very often present in other adaptations, are largely forgotten because of this. Being as much of an advocate for 'pure Carroll' as I am, that just bugs me beyond compare. Several poems, bits of dialogue, and other moments are meshed together, dumbed down, or just omitted completely, to the point where this particular film seems less of an adaptation of the books and more of a reimagination, but, let's face it, Disney's just notorious for that sort of thing. Also, the designs – while wonderful – are almost never like John Tenniel's illustrations, or only vaguely resemble them...I think Alice herself is the only exception.But, gripes aside, do I hate this movie? Hardly! It is one of my favorite films created by Disney, and one of my favorite takes on 'Alice' made. Still, as the 'building block' that many other adaptations are based on, I don't feel it deserves the reputation it has. Still, it's a very important film, both for the legacy of Lewis Carroll and the Walt Disney Studio, so I guess it deserves a good amount of credit, and I love it all the same.It's also, in my opinion, the best way to introduce Lewis Carroll's work to kids: it's rather lighthearted, especially for a Disney film (these movies are A LOT darker than many people give them credit), and the spirit of Carroll is decently embodied, and the music and characters are great; if you haven't said 'I'm late, I'm late, for a very important date' at least once in your lifetime, you are officially dehumanized.Other 'kid flick' takes on the stories warp and twist it to fit another medium, like 'Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland' or Sesame Street's 'Abby in Wonderland.' This one doesn't: it changes a lot, but it doesn't include previously established characters or a heck of a lot of pop-culture references either, which is a plus. If you haven't seen it, not only are you an extremely strange person, but you REALLY need to.
Classic Disney here, so much so, that the images of such iconic literary figures as Alice, The Mad Hatter and Queen of Hearts, to name but three, are inextricably and indelibly linked to their animated selves here. The story writes itself of course and is a free-wheeling delight practically from start to finish, as each 'chapter' unfolds. If it did falter a little holding one's interest round about the middle, that's soon put right and more, by the appearance of the Queen and the Cheshire cat. The music is light bright and tuneful, in fact my wife stills sings 'A Very Merry Unbirthday' 364 days of the year. My only criticism would be that some of the backgrounds are a bit flat and lacking detail, but these are more than made up for by the unforgettable main characters. Vintage stuff, nothing curious about it.
Disney's animated version of the Lewis Carroll's classic, 'Alice in Wonderland' is one of the most underrates entries in the Disney Animated Canon.It is true that isn't completely faithful to the original source material (Like most of the Disney animated adaptations of fairy tales and books) but even with those differences, this version manages to capture very well all the sense of magic and wonder that the movie had to offer.Combining some elements from 'Alice's Adventures in Wonderland' with a few additional elements from the book 'Through the Looking-Glass', this is, in my opinion, one of the most satisfying and most captivating adaptation of the worlds created by Lewis Carroll. Not only the animation have the incredible beauty of the best Disney animated classics, but also the whole movie it's a delight to watch, with charming, (but at the same time strange) characters and situations, making it a timeless entertainment for the whole family of high quality.While this version captures the charm and fun of the book, another memorable version (Done by the Czech filmmaker Jan vankmajer) captures all the strangeness of the Alice in Wonderland stories, with a dark, but surprisingly faithful adaptation. Personally I like both movies, and I think that both were excellent capturing the same story from a different perspective.
Alice in Wonderland- 1951 An adaptation, if not the most famous one, of the 1867 Alice's Adventures of Wonderland and a bit of the sequel Through the Looking Glass, the movie starts with a narration of Alice's Wonderland and her exploits with a song. The movie acts like a musical, but at the same time has that random structure that a classic Chuck Jones cartoon would have with more play on words than slapstick. If the movie would be summarized it would be Alice goes through the rabbit hole, she cries because she can't get home once she grows, meets the sailing Dodo, follows the white rabbit again, meets Dee and Dumb which tell her the story of the Walrus and the Carpenter and other random stories such as Old William who stood on his head. Then Alice finds the rabbit once again in his house who he confuses for his wife Mary Ann to fetch his gloves, Alice being curious again, eats unknown food because it's labeled 'eat me' which causes her to grow and be perceived as a monster to the Dodo, Bill the Lizard, and the Rabbit. She eats a carrot and grows 3 inches high to meet the flowers and the Caterpillar. To summarize the rest of the film, she meets more mad denizens of Wonderland in curiosity of the White Rabbit's destination and then changes her goal to returning home once the inhabitants of Wonderland are becoming more hostile to her after the Mad Tea Party, which sympathize with her when she breaks down crying about how she seldom listens to good advice due to her curious nature. The Red Queen is supposed to lead her to a way out, since the Cat lead her there and she is the ruler of Wonderland, but instead she is a selfish, mad, random cartoon who is as nonsensical as all of the other creatures like the Hare or the Hatter and decapitating anyone who displeases her in the slightest. This is not by any means a complaint, but a compliment to the film, since the madness, especially the randomness of my favorite scenes, the Tea Party scene and the verdict of Alice which has even a child like Alice rolling her eyes with the madness of the Queen and her subjects. More similar to Fantasia at times and adapting very little of the second novel focusing more on the first one with spectacular but random animation, this is a treasure to behold and I give it a 9 out of 10. The only reason it lost a point is because as you saw from my summary, the movie is too short just running at 75 minutes long and if it incorporated Through the Looking Glass, it would have been nice to include the Chess elements and the White Queen. The Jabberwock monster would have been a nice addition, I understand they put excerpts of the poem in the movie like Twinkle Twinkle Little Bat and How Doth the Little Crocodile but the monster would have been nice. The Duchess deleted scene is available in the 60th Un-Anniversary Edition DVD release which is worth watching since it adds another mad character and random situation which adds to the insanity of Wonderland!
I watched this film endlessly as a youngster. As an adult now, I just watched it today. It was great! It's absolutely wacky and thoroughly nonsensical, which is of course the point. I suppose also there's a moral in there about how sometimes wishing for what we want, and then getting it, isn't always best. Getting what we want and ignoring the good advice of others tends to leave us (especially young children) wanting to return to our previous situation.The animation is superb, the score is good, the voices are top notch and the characters, well - if ever a film could win an Oscar for characters, it would be this one. Also, it's a very short film, only lasting a mere 70 minutes - if that. But in that time, it manages to deliver a healthy dose of idiocy and madness, and I must admit that it was genuinely hilarious on more than one occasion. The Mad-Hatter and the March Hare are the funniest and every scene they are in is just brilliantly entertaining. It's no wonder why they have gained such popularity for decades. In addition, there are plenty of other ways that this film can cheer up a downcast soul on a rainy day. The sheer variety is also a pleasure.It was really enjoyable! I think it's one of Disney's best films and I'm glad I managed to find it for just 20p in a charity shop earlier! Well worth it!
I watched this movie the same day I said goodbye to a friend who I may never seen again. I was very sad and even a bit emotionally disturbed. However, this movie helped me to calm down, and right now I'm just fine. :) This movie features a girl who goes off on an adventure to Wonderland, just to see where a white rabbit is going, only to end up involved with all of the strange and mysterious creatures and events that occur in the land. Things including a tea party, a caterpillar, etc.Alice finally gives up and wants to go home when she goes face to face with the queen herself, who is quite nutty. Just like other classics, this movie takes fiction with reality. Talking animals and flowers. A queen with no sense of order, playing cards that talk and move, it's all here!
'Sentence first! Verdict afterward.'This is a manic, imaginative adaptation of the manic, imaginative children's classic by Lewis Carroll. The movie quickly speeds through the major events of Alice in Wonderland, with a bit of Through the Looking Glass thrown in, as well. The animation of classic Disney is a good match for the imaginative characters and situations that Alice encounters, and the trademark and expected Disney songs are fine (though not really among the most memorable of Disney tunes). It's hard to imagine any fans of Alice in Wonderland not liking this adaptation, as it tries its hardest to capture at least  some of the cleverness of the story. From the insanity of the March Hare and Mad Hatter to the trippy Cheshire Cat and ruthless Queen of Hearts, Alice in Wonderland is one of the more unique Disney animated movies that have been made.
This is one of the Disney movies I watch least often. My favorite thing about it is the colors. Mary Blair is one of my favorite artists, and her influence seems to be strong in the way this looks. I also like almost all of the songs. There are certainly some funny segments, and lots to like. When I was younger, I even liked to read the original Lewis Carrol text with annotations to try to understand where some of the ideas came from. However, I became much less interested in symbolism over the years. Most of the other Disney cartoons are very straightforward, which I like. I think it makes it easier to share with younger viewers.
This is my favorite early Disney cartoon. The whole movie has a dream-like quality, which is apropos because Alice is dreaming throughout the story. A number of reviewers refer to the 'trippy' quality of the movie. And indeed it is trippy, from the mad-hatter tea party to the opium smoking Caterpillar to the Cheshire cat fading in and out and whose smile is mistaken for a crescent moon, to the Queen of Hearts and the final chase morphing into a whirling, twirling swirl of colorful cards. I disagree with critics who say the action is too slow or that the songs are not up to par. The action, in my mind, is appropriate to 'dream speed,' focusing intensely on the strange characters Alice meets and then cutting away to a new scene. The songs are fine and perfectly in context - I particularly like 'A very merry unbirthday to you.' I highly recommend this cartoon to viewers old and young - sit down, tune in, and let your imagination run wild.
Incredible piece of filmmaking and certainly the most adult oriented cartoon of the early Disney days, Alice in Wonderland walks gracefully among the paradoxes and surrealism of Carroll's story of a bored of normality little girl who decides to tread a world of things turned to their meaning. Terry Gilliam would have absolutely killed to have done this but, truth be said, Clyde Geronimi, Wilfred Jackson and Hamilton Luske have done the inimitable task of combining old Disney magic (which is simply unreproducible even by nowadays Pixar) with a totally unexpected delirium of cinematic madness, plot deconstruction, thematic ambivalence and visual inventiveness. Even if you don't care for that kind of movie-making, Alice stands as an apocalypse of standout narrative.
This thing is just completely wacko. It's like an insane acid trip. All the characters except Alice are totally insane, the weird creatures in the woods are beyond strange, the events that happen in the movie are crazy, and I love every moment of it. It is one of those movies that says 'Marijuana may be illegal, but this movie isn't'. It is totally insane, but that is why it is so enjoyable. It is a little trip to beautiful insanity that isn't illegal. That's the best part about it, but it also has some good voice acting, great characters, and good animation. My favorite characters are The Cheshire Cat, The Mad Hatter, and The March Hare. The best scene I have to say is the tea party, and the insane climax. Alice in Wonderland is a film so insane it has to be enjoyed. It is crazy fun.4 stars out of 4
I'd once thought of the period under Walt Disney himself to be a nearly spotless time of creativity, where each film was a spectacular achievement for the art of animation and an example of nearly impeccable craftsmanship. The key word is 'nearly.' Despite its iconic status, I'm afraid a rewatch of Disney's Alice in Wonderland has not been kind to it at all. In fact, this I think is the first sign of the kind of film making that would plague Disney's work following the death of its famed producer. It's not quite so bad as all that, of course, since there is great animation and artwork to be found in each individual scene, but none of its adds up to much of anything, and when it's all over it makes no impact.According to certain workers in the studio, it was Walt Disney himself who failed to make this project work. While his perfectionism and insistence on placing his own personal stamp on everything usually worked out for the better, in this case Disney was constantly clashing with his writers over the humor of the story. The original novel was much too Victorian for him, and his attempts to liven things up with slapstick and screwball humor led to a watered down product that was too surreal and weird to work as conventional Hollywood storytelling, yet, too commercialized to be much of an art film. In the end, it's a curiosity in search of a throughline.Which isn't to say that the craftsmanship isn't as impeccable as on any Disney film. If for no other reason, this film must be viewed for the beautiful design work by the great Mary Blair, easily one of the most influential art designers in all of animation. The bright colors and exotic locations make every scene feel like the eyes are munching on a visual pastry.The other reason to watch this film, and I believe the primary cause of its following, is that it's packed with memorable characters. It's a real tour de force where character animation is concerned, with Milt Kahl and Ward Kimball and Eric Larsen and all those other guys giving each individual a real feeling of weight. Kimball's work on the Mad Hatter's party remains great fun to watch, and Kahl does a few interesting bits here and there. However, the real scene stealer is, bizarrely, Frank Thomas. His bombastic work on the Queen of Hearts (which he based off a glimpse of a woman at a musical performance of his) is so over the top and fun to watch that it's easy to forget Thomas's forte was usually naturalism (he'd also break this habit of his with his work on Captain Hook).And yet...it just doesn't work. Alice herself just doesn't endear at all, as she just sort of wanders from place to place and is subject to a bunch of wacky cartoon gags. There's some fun scenes, some good music...but that's it. To be fair, it's far better than Burton's take on the story, as it at least isn't burdened with trying to be hip, but it still remains the weakest of Disney's feature films before the seventies. Much better semi-adaptations have been made of Carroll, such as Miyazaki's Spirited Away or Rivette's Celine & Julie Go Boating, that make this proper adaptation feel wanting (I haven't yet watched Svankmajer's Alice). It's simply too lightweight.
Seeing Disney's 1951 animated film Alice in Wonderland for the first time in a dozen-or-so years was my first proper interaction with the rather famous 19th Century Lewis Carroll text; and in clocking in at just over 70 minutes, this is either a short, sharp, brisk ride through animated Disney shenanigans initially designed for kids to lap up in no time at all, or an extended surrealist piece documenting some pretty grown up material under an overhead banner of the uncanny. Regardless, the film is a strange beast; a piece that straddles a line between some rather absurdest material, of which additionally carries a genuinely comedic undercurrent with out and out farce blended in with sequences of rather unbalanced horror. It would be true to say the film feels a little longer than the runtime reads, but such is the achievement of this addition of Alice in Wonderland, that items and specific content such as those explored within would come across as broader than usual.The tale sees a young blonde girl named Alice (Beaumont), who sports a light blue dress that brings out her eyes underneath a white apron-like piece of clothing, go on a sporadic journey through a place of both unearthly delights and horrors, the beautiful; the unreal and the terrible of what this strange and distorting place has to offer. It would appear that Alice's Wonderland is, in fact, the real world, but diluted through the viewpoint of a ten or so year old girl of whom is still living within a pretty sheltered existence. We begin with the titular character sitting in a tree, daring to dream about another life; another existence away from the authoritarian rule of an elder relative and her reading of an educational book Alice must pay attention to. Alice lusts for escape, for adventure – I suppose a shifting away from the family and these authoritarian individuals; in doing so, dreaming of her own world of nonsense in which she can get away to. The rest of the film seems to be a process of humbling, a process that sees her at one point hit the lowest of lows as sadness and desperation settles in. If Alice's circular journey teaches her anything, it's that one's lust for individuality and release into another world away from one's peers is a bigger deal than one thinks and ought not be taken lightly.I'm unaware of the structure of the book and the process in which the interactions are unfolded, specifically in what order, but this 1951 adaptation includes a short piece very early on entitled 'The Walrus and the Carpenter', something that I read appeared in an altogether different Alice fable. In including so early this text-within-a-text, co-directors Clyde Geronimi and Wilfred Jackson capture the essence of the entire piece; something that can be read into as a frustrating laying out of the cards for all to see so early on or a clever inclusion from another piece altogether foreshadowing the arc of Alice's adventure. That is to say, a premature leaving of one's homely 'safe zone'; the ignoring of parental, indeed family-driven, advice as well as the allure of following something, or someone, of great exuberance and eccentricity into whatever rabbit hole or there-other. The emphasis on Alice's inability to quite understand the short story that the two Brummie twins deliver only highlights Alice's ignorance to her situation; something that will get worse before it gets better.In addition to this, it precursors Alice's interaction with The Queen, as the hapless individuals at the centre of the twins' tale documents their eventual decline in well-being to an over exuberant and powerful figure. Granted, the item that led Alice away from her natural state is a white rabbit, but the rabbit's association with The Queen and her quarters aids in drawing on parallels with the oysters and their doomed interaction with the Walrus. But a lot of Alice's flitting interactions are interesting, even if few of them carry as much substantial weight as the one with the two twins and their poem. The film will jump from content which emotes laughs to other such content that is just creepy and of an absurdest, horror driven nature; but it's a series of jumps that are handled deftly. The tea party scene, in particular, is a quite wonderful demonstration of physical comedy between two parties; one of whom is a lost wandering soul that doesn't belong where she is, with the other made up of two individuals in the shape of The March Hair (Colonna) and The Mad Hatter (Wynn), of whom are so wildly insane that they don't seem to belong anywhere.In its final throw of the dice, the film will use a newfound area of antagonism from the character of The Queen of Hearts (Felton) in order to propel Alice through a grinder and give her a reason to arrive at some peril. The stumbling into this final act driven purely by curiosity for what the white rabbit's purpose is, an introductory sequence in which Alice merrily joins in painting The Queen's roses with three minions and appears to be uncannily able to hear some instrumental music which the servants sing along to, yet gives us no reason to assume it ought to be diegetic. Regardless, the film services on a comedic level which in turn sits well with all the surrealist driven horror stuff such as smoking caterpillars and talking flowers; while Alice's own arc in realising that the coming of age process need not be rushed given the original circumstances she lived under, is satisfying in its own right.
This is one of those movies that people can still watch 50 years after it comes out and still enjoy it. Unlike many movies, it seems to be timeless. Show someone a movie from 10 years ago and they will constantly be critiquing the effects, acting, script, and basically everything. This is one movie that you truly cannot find problems with the animation or whatever, because that is beyond the point. The true heart of the movie is beyond animation or script or whatever. It is in the meaning of the film and everything that goes into it. I first saw this movie when I was rather young. I found that it was a wonderfully cute movie. It wasn't until rather recently that I saw it again and to put it honestly found it somewhat disturbing. This movie gives me chills because I've read into it more. I've seen meanings that perhaps were meant to be in it, or perhaps I'm just seeing it for myself. Either way it is a movie that constantly intrigues me. I am going to agree with people that the book was better because it kept some of the truly disturbing parts in that Disney decided to take out. But besides that I enjoyed this movie. When I saw the 2010 Alice in Wonderland I almost left because of how much it seemed to destroy the whole meaning of the book by taking it into a much more 'cutesy' fantasy film.
Anyone looking for a 100% faithful adaptation of Lewis Carroll is not going to find it here. This film is more Disney than Carroll. But that's alright. The word 'adaptation' suggest change of some sort, and every film maker has envisioned Alice's trip down the rabbit hole through their own unique perspective. Every time someone tries to adapt Lewis Carroll's book faithfully, audiences don't care for it. They always seem more interested in flashier, fast-paced adaptations.For faithfulness, the 1972 English film, the Jonathan Miller BBC production, and the Eva LeGallienne/Florida Friebus revival on KCET, are preferred. But for sheer fun and cinematic virtuoso, Disney's film rocks. It's hilarious, colorful and full of Disney charm and heart. Not to mention a work of accomplished cartoon surrealism.People have often been snobbish toward the Disney version for not being faithful and have never once brought up the many faithful versions that exist. There are many good and interesting interpretations of 'Alice' and Disney's is definitely one of the best. If not the most fun. It's time for 'Alice' critics to fall off their high horses and realize that Alice and her wonderland of creatures and humor has been treated kindly and fairly in the media, and to sit back and enjoy the wonderful treasures that have already been given.
...but I have yet to see a movie version that did truly give the book(s) their just due. The present generation of youngsters will probably notice that the Cheshire Cat sounds like Disney's Winnie the Pooh (thank you, Sterling Holloway!) but are unlikely to recognize any of the other celebrity voices. The Disney version is entertaining, and hopefully has given kids enough curiosity to look up the books.The 'Masterpiece Edition' DVD has some excellent bonus material, including demo recordings of several deleted songs, Disney's very first 'Alice' cartoon (in which a very young, but still recognizable, Walt is seen!), and the 1950 Christmas special complete with sponsor plugs (and with the originally-aired black-and-white animated segments replaced by the color versions).By the way, Carroll's 'unanswered riddle' does have an answer, though you have to go back to the Victorian era for it: Why is a raven like a writing desk? Because both had inky quills, of course.
In preparation for Tim Burton's take on 'Alice in Wonderland' chez Disney, I decided to have a watch of the original (well, semi-definitive) version of Lewis Carroll's classic. Although somewhat less revered than some of the other major Walt-era animated films, this has always been one of my absolute favourites (it was also the first film I supposedly saw as well), but I hadn't actually seen it in about four years or so. Having watched it again, critically and not trying to watch it through rose-tinted glasses, I felt thoroughly delighted for just over an hour, and am now beginning to wonder whether or not I'll come out of the Tim Burton film comparing it to this version, which is a showdown of fanciful characters and situations set alongside delightful art and music.The general style of the film is frankly wonderful. In terms of character design, it's a slightly Disneyfied version of Tenniel. The character animation is lively and the backgrounds are fantastic, creating a world that could seem like it were pulled out of a dream; bold colours, modernist shapes and patterned plants are just some of the wondrous delights that will make you want to stop and pause the DVD player. Art-director Mary Blair should be the one who is commended here, as it is overall her who gave this film (and many others, including 'Cinderella', 'Peter Pan' and 'The Three Caballeros') such a whimsical feel. There are some strikingly beautiful scenes; such as the Tulgey Wood changing its very form during the song 'Very Good Advice' (a very Carrollian effect) and the March of the Cards.The score, penned by Oliver Wallace, is delightful and there are a handful of charming Disney songs ('Painting the Roses Red', 'The Unbirthday Song' and 'The Walrus and the Carpenter' are amongst the best). As an adaptation of Lewis Carroll's original, it's quite successful. Sure, it may not be the ever elusive perfect adaptation, but it's certainly not painfully Americanised like some adaptations have been (namely the 1985 mini-series, which very nearly becomes a crime against humanity) and it retains the satire and zaniness of the original. The Queen of Hearts, for example, seems to be more of the pitiful and sham of a character that she was in the book than Helena Bonham-Carter's extremely villainous rendering looks to be (granted, that is just me judging from the trailer and I could be proved wrong). Overall, 'Alice in Wonderland' proves to be a pleasant mesh of Disney and Carroll, and comes highly recommended.
I don't really know why but I love this movie. Overall I like Alice in Wonderland and Through the looking glass but this movie got me reading these books. I can see by what the British meant when they 'Americanized' it, it was kind of like the Thomas movie that the states made but thats for another time. Alice was kind of boring and wasn't interesting to watch but that was the polar opposite for the citizens of Wonderland. Sterling Holloway does an excellent job as the Cheshire Cat and Ed Wynn is hysterical as the Mad Hatter. I remember seeing this as a kid and it blew me away. I always loved the song ' A Very Merry Unbirthday' and I like the deleted song 'I'm Odd'. I hope that Tim Burtons, what am I saying. OF COURSE, Tim Burtons vision of the story is going to blow me away like this movie did.
Considering the fact that the remake is coming out soon, I thought that I would review Alice in Wonderland. Alice in wonderland is one weird movie. No doubting that. But does saying that something is weird mean that something is bad? No, of course not. There have been some strange films in our time, and most have been great. Alice in wonderland is probably the weirdest of the Disney animation films. Alice is a little girl who falls through a hole and ends up in Wonderland. Where she encounters many things. The Cheschire cat, a rabbit who runs away from Alice every time he sees her cause he's late, a caterpillar, The Mad hatter, and others. And The Red queen of course, who isn't exactly a happy person. Alice tries finding a way home. Can she though?If you have never seen the film, or at least read Lewis Carrol's classic novel, then you are missing out. I believe that Tim Burton's film will actually be better than the animated movie. Alice in wonderland isn't as good as lets say Beauty and the beast, but it's a must see.
When I first watched Alice In Wonderland years back, I was like 'What was the point in that, it didn't even have a good plot!' However, I have just recently watched it again, and I thought it wasn't that bad!I think it's one of those films where you have to watch it again to like it. It's totally random, but entertaining at the same time. It's funny, and Alice is a good character herself! I haven't read the book to be honest, so I can't say if there was some big difference. But, now that I've watched the film again, I can say it's a fine movie.The only people I wouldn't recommend it to are people who want all the scenes in a movie to make sense. It's a generally a good movie, not the best of Disney I've seen, but it's fun when you get use to the silliness and randomness. Really.
I don't buy a lot of the allegory read into the Alice books - for example that the rabbit hole represents a certain female orifice or the dormouse the downtrodden proletariat. Truth be told, for all its clever deconstruction of language and meaning, the story is chaotic, haphazard, somewhat unpleasant, often over-laboured, and (at its worst) pure nonsense rather than pseudo-nonsense. As a children's story, Disney could only improve it with the added value we would expect of him. Alice is a pleasant character here and the scene in the daisy field at the beginning is lovely. The talking door-handle (not in the book) is a typical Disney characterisation and serves as a useful lead-in and lead-out point for Wonderland. The caterpillar is the finest interpretation, blowing not smoke rings but smoke symbols - a splendid embellishment. The Mad Hatter manages to be mad enough without simply being annoying and the whole tea-party sequence is a torrent of brilliant visual gags that are more than a match for the arch dialogue from the book. The other characters such as the Queen and the White Rabbit are fairly routine and the Cheshire Cat was not quite there (in all senses), nor could the film overcome the long dull business with the playing cards towards the end. All in all though, rich enough to entertain despite the overfamiliarity, and at times marvellous.
The famed Lewis Carroll books gets the Disney treatment and the result is some of the trippiest, funniest and most unbelievable imagery ever put on film.You know the story: little Alice spots a White Rabbit and follows it down the rabbit hole into a bizarre and surreal land of talking animals, bad manners and some unsettling monarchs. The story is loaded with pure nonsense but I loved every single minute, character and idea.The Disney version of the story gets one thing right that most other versions fail tremendously at and that would be the casting. Everyone is spot on here with Ed Wynn, Sterling Holloway, Verna Felton, Bill Thompson, and Richard Hayden just shining as the trippy and weirdo residents of Wonderland. A particular stand-out is Holloway as The Chesire Cat. He is cast to perfection and embodies the part with all the qualities we now associate with the character: slinky, weird, menacing and funny.This review almost cannot do justice to the film. It has some terrific animation, great performances, and some very catchy songs (14 songs total and it never feels bloated). I strongly urge any Disney or Carroll or animation fan to seek this out. You won't be sorry.
In some ways I like Alice in Wonderland very much. And in some ways it falls kind of flat. I think it all stems from the transition of mediums and the radically different beast the original book was.As pretty much everyone in the Western Hemisphere with any education knows, Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass are simply nonsense for nonsense sake. There are no real moralizing overarching themes: they exist on the merit of wit and wordplay. Now in that, they are wonderfully successful and entertaining. So why adapt them into a film- namely a Disney film, known for it's life lessons and happy endings? Well that is the question that everyone would like answered.While glimpses of the original wit shine through during the entire movie, there is a disconnect in the obliged Disney storyfication. Now I never begrudge Disney for tailoring their sources to their trademark pattern- they do it so well. However this time it does feel a misstep choosing a source so unsuitable to their goal. Here the words are a tumbling, bumbling servant, not the framed focus and the morals leave a heavy taste in an otherwise whimsical palette.That being said, Alice is not without its values. The serial stories were mostly entertaining, especially the walrus and the carpenter. Even more than that, the characters are vividly memorably and interesting, though when you really sit down to think about it, not a one is extremely likable or even pleasant. That is the greatest feat, so props both to the animators and the writing team (and obviously Mr. Carroll).And the film is itself quite interesting visually- with Mary Blair at the helm of the backgrounds. I wish her influence had spread to the character design - it could have really punched it up. You can see this film starting the crossover from the soft rounded 'typical' Disney animation to a more graphic style that culminated in Sleeping Beauty.The music is pretty good- nothing outstandingly stunning, but it all fits in and moves the story along very well. I have to say I do not find Katherine Beaumont to be a gifted singer- her warbling voice did nothing for me.While I do not find Alice in Wonderland to stink of all that is wrong with the world, I cannot shout its praise with any enthusiasm either. It has its highs and lows, its merits and pitfalls. While Alice captures my interest for the time she is on, I never find myself clamoring for her presence, humming her tunes, or even thinking about her really. If I was presented with a quote, my mind would immediately race to the novel, not the film. And that, I think is a testament to the endurance of the original.Quote of the film:'The time has come' the Walrus said, 'to talk of many things. Of shoes and ships and sealing wax, of cabbages and kings. And why the sea is boiling hot, and whether pigs have wings.'
This is one of Walt Disney's worst movies. I was so excited to see Alice in Wonderland from Disney due to my trust that this company gives a storybook fairytale a great picture (that's not what i really think right know), and I've used to love reading Alice in Wonderland storybooks, but after seeing it, it appeared to me that there's a lot of works from books and other films on this fairytale better then this lame film. The writing for this film was very bad, and not to mention the script. I hated almost every word that came out from Alice's mouth, and not to mention the way they made the bunny react and repeat 'I'm late'. This movies gives the viewer a headache to me and makes him say the word 'LAME' after only few scenes from the movie.I once saw this not very good cartoon movie on Alice as well from Golden films, and i was surprised to find this low-budget movie better then a Walt Disney Production. Guess high budget and quality don't serve a work dramatically does it.
I have never read the fantasy novel of Lewis Carrol's, but like most of us I've watched the film Alice in Wonderland since childhood. When I watched the film as a child, it did in fact spark my imagination and drew me into the childhood fantasy. Wonderland was a place with limitless possibilities of fairytale, and brought my imagination to new places.I'm now 24 years old, and my view of the film has slightly changed. I still love the film, but as I've grown older and a little wiser, I'm starting to wonder. Is Alice in Wonderland about drugs or not? I'm sure Lewis Carrol wasn't into drugs, but here are a few examples I can remember off the top of my head that seem to be referring to drugs. Alice falling down the rabbit hole, Alice chasing the white rabbit, the caterpillar smoking from a hookah, the stuff she had to consume to grow big or small, the cat fading in and out and changing colors after eating mushrooms, the tea party, and the game with the queen all seem to be influenced by drugs. Or am I just crazy?
This version on Alice in Wonderland is the best version of the classic book. What impressed me most was the mix of 'Wonderland' and 'Looking Glass'. The animation was the best element of the movie, with a gorgeous sequence in the song 'Golden Afternoon', which was the best song in my opinion. Not to mention the watercolour-painting like landscapes of the English countryside. The songs, while not as memorable as later Disney films, were very pleasant to the ear, with an appreciative nostalgic feel. The characters were what make this film, as they are memorable and engaging. However, Alice sometimes was a little bland, but that is the only weakness here, and Kathryn Beaumont did voice her beautifully. The Cheshire Cat and White Rabbit were very well done, likewise with the Mad Hatter and March Hare. In fact The Cheshire Cat is my favourite character, and Sterling Holloway shone voicing him. The best vocal characterisation was the Queen of Hearts, voiced by Disney regular Verna Felton who did a great job. I know they missed the Mock Turtle and the Griffin out, but if they were included, the overall film would've been too long. In conclusion, an imaginative and solid version of a great book! 9/10 Bethany Cox
Out of all of Disney's animated classics, this happens to be my number one favourite.This movie has made a tremendous impact on me. I thought Alice was just sweet, adorable and seductive. I loved the adventures Alice went through in the movie, her long blonde hair, blue eyes, black ribbon, etc. I also feel this is a story I could relate with because it is about imagination and I always wanted my own exit from reality just like that. It is also what being a child is all about.The animation in this movie is just terrific. The songs were also a thing about this movie that has absolutely delighted me.I also happen to be a fan of Lewis Carroll's novel upon which this movie is based on. I know this movie didn't follow the book precisely, but if it hadn't been for this movie, I would not have read the book.The things I dislike about this movie is how some think that the characters are nasty and unfriendly and some think that it has no genuine story arc to it. Didn't the book have no genuine story arc to it? I also disagree with all the critics calling it one of Disney's weaker animated movies.Another thing I also dislike about this movie is that Disney are doing another adaptation of the book, but it will be a live-action, Gothic interpretation because Tim Burton is directing it, and it will include some of that computerized fakery that is often popping up in movies nowadays. People will mostly go to this new movie because of hottie Johnny Depp being in it, and I'm not fond of either him or Tim Burton. And Tim Burton is not even casting a child as Alice, he's casting an 18 year-old named Mia Wasikowska as Alice.As one of the best movies Disney made during his lifetime and one of the best animated movies ever made, I recommend this highly for anyone (apart from Lewis Carroll purists, you'll just be displeased with it). If you haven't seen or own this movie, you should. My rating: 10 out of 10.
My Take: Colorful animation and clever storytelling; Disney is more than just capable of telling Carroll's classic story. Disney's golden age has been a parade of hit-and-miss affairs. Although their classic style of animated wonders have always been classic and have lived on as superb forms of entertainment, not all eventually held up to the standards. Disney version of Lewis Carroll's ALICE IN WONDERLAND is a hit-and-miss affair. On one hand, this is one crazy story that's bound to befuddle a few youngsters just as the original 'Alice' stories have. Disney is pretty odd ground for Carroll's 'faerie tale', but I beg to differ. I think Disney animation would be more than adequate in bringing this strange and eccentric world, resulting into one of Disney's most bizarre and mostly under-appreciated efforts. Disney's version of Carroll's fable doesn't exactly charm as much as it is supposed to, but there's still a lot to be seen in little Alice's (voiced by Kathryn Beaumont) journey across the world of utter nonsense. Disney's term of nonsense sure is a sweet one, since this movie is filled with charming and colorful surreal visuals, lifted straight from the pages of Carroll's story. From the Cheshire cat (voiced by Sterling Halloway) to the hot-headed Queen of Hearts (voiced with malice by Verna Felton), to the Mad Tea Party featuring Ed Wynn's wild antics as the voice of the Mad Hatter.The clever nonsense stated in Carroll's stories don't always fit screen standards and a little dumbing-down is bound to occur, but Disney's ALICE IN WONDERLAND doesn't strip the story down completely as a bare bones kiddie flick. There's enough sophistication here to do justice to its source and the eye-candy animation is very eager to please the youngsters. It's far from perfect, but this is such a trippy film that it's hard not to get lost in it. Rating: **** out of 5.
Here is another classic story beside 'Gulliver's Travels' that in intrigue me, and after reading Alice, it became one of my favorite books. I thought this film from Disney is a colorful and imaginative animated interpretation of the classic children's novel. Of course I love both Disney's version and the live-action made-for-TV version from Hallmark with Martin Short (The Mad Hatter) and Whoppi Goldberg (The Cheshire Cat); I am not one to take sides. I love five out of fourteen songs out of the film's soundtrack, which are:
'Alice in Wonderland,'
'In a World of My Own,'
'All in a Golden Afternoon,'
'A Very Merry Un-birthday' or 'The Un-birthday Song,' and...
'Painting the Roses Red.'And I love our adventurous little girl Alice and how she's designed. I now admit, Marc Davis is a champion behind female figures. He also did Cinderella, Princess Aurora/Briar Rose from Sleeping Beauty and Wendy from Peter Pan.
Although 'Alice' was a dud when first released in 1951, it remains one of Walt Disney's best animated features. Disney stuck by Lewis Carroll's world of whimsy and nonsense, and deftly wove together Carroll's first 'Alice' book with some scenes from its sequel 'Through the Looking Glass.' Purists may be disappointed, but Disney made the film all his own, and succeeded mightily in creating a unique and highly entertaining film while still retaining some of the subtle charm of Carroll's books.First and foremost, the animation is excellent. Storyboarders and art designers did a wonderful job in creating a surreal landscape and fantastic characters for Wonderland. Although the mark is clearly Disney with regards to character and background design, there is some hint at recreating, at least in part, some of John Tenniel's character designs from his illustrations from the original 'Alice' book; this seems apparent with the Mad Hatter, who looks like a hybrid of Tenniel and typical Disney character design.The voice actors are also excellent. The Mad Hatter and March Hare were played by old time radio icons Ed Wynn and Jerry Collona, respectively. They bring their comedic talents for eccentric voices and witty wordplay to the fore in the 'Mad Tea Party' scene. Kathryn Beaumont is also very good as the protagonist Alice. An assortment of veteran British and American voice actors round out the cast; some, such as Sterling Holloway, would become Disney stalwarts that would remain with the company after Disney's death. Their talents buoy the film.One cliché that nonetheless holds true for 'Alice' is that this is a movie that can be enjoyed by both children and adults. Adults may, for instance, be able to pick up on some of the nonsense verse and clever and subtle dialogue and wordplay that was adapted from Carroll's work. While many have accused Walt Disney of ruining a classic work of literature by removing the adult wit and replacing it with simple pablum that only small children would like, the film still retains some of Carroll's charm, in spite of Disney's efforts to dilute the film in his adaptation.I loved this movie as a child and it is still one of my favorite movies. It is one of Disney's best works, and, in spite of its original critical and commercial failure, lives on as a justifiable cult classic. Watch it with your kids and enjoy the show!
I saw Alice In Wonderland as a child in the 1960s, and it has remained one of my fav Disney cartoon features(My fav is Pinnochio) and I have the film on VHS tape.I very rarely watch Disney Sat Channel due to stupid logo in bottom left corner, but I think it now about time that something was done about these pointless logos on all channels ruining your viewing pleasure. So though I give the film 9 out of 10, I give Disney minus 10!!!!! for the way they are showing it on their channel today, with is Disney premiere. Because Disney has the biggest logo, I am especially disgusted with the way they treat their viewers. As far as I am concerned the 2 things that really ruin viewing on sat TV is logos, and people doing deaf language in corner of the screen. People complain about films being cut, b/w films being colourized, widescreen movies being shown as pan and scan etc, but why no complaints about the worst thing on TV in my opinion?Colin.
With its tense, beautiful, hilarious and exciting moments, this Disney film is not only good on the books (mainly the first one) but also exceedingly entertaining, especially for slightly older children and adults who love Disney (the reason for this is that it may be very upsetting for young children, but not all young children). With lots of similar things to the book, plus the good work of Walt Disney, the animators and the actors, this makes a very enjoyable Disney film! :-)While Alice's mother/sister is teaching the young Alice history outdoors, the young girl complains that she can hardly pay attention to a book without pictures and tells her cat Dinah how she would love to go to a world of her very own, where everything would be the way she wanted it to be. Suddenly, as if in a dream (which it really is), a white rabbit comes hopping along the river bank and curious, Alice follows it into a huge rabbit hole, where she falls into Wonderland...With good characters, themes and events chosen from the book (with only a few left out) and two characters and a poem from the second book by Lewis Carroll, this Disney film is sure to delight many, especially (as said at the top) slightly older children and adults who like Disney films.Enjoy 'Alice In Wonderland'! :-)
Alice in wonderland can be seen as a parody, a satire of the English society in which Lewis Carrol lived, the Victorian society. In this sense, the wonderland appears as the a place where the girl can express herself freely, without taking into consideration the Victorian morals, values and manners. This social parody is quite obvious in the queen's discourse, she emphasizes the fact that all the ways are her ways, a fact available in England, all the territories are considered to be the queen's territories. The queen and her servants are nothing more than some card figures. On the other hand, we can take the movie and the book and analyse it from the psychoanalytic point of view. The wonderland is the mad world of the dream, where the subconscious interferes. The psychoanalytic elements are abounding in this movie: we have the doors, the keys the mushroom as a phallic symbol, the dream as a way of suppressing desires.
Disney's version of 'Alice in Wonderland' is, without a doubt, one of the best fantasy films of all time. The Story: Alice is in the park with her sister (that's right. The older woman is her sister, NOT her mother. I found it hard to believe, too). Her sister is teaching her a lesson in history, but Alice plays with her adorable kitten, Dinah. Her sister gets snappy and Alice says that she can't pay attention to a book with no pictures in it and goes on about her fantasy world (or really, Wonderland), where nothing is what it seems. Along comes a white rabbit who says he's late 'for a very important date!'. Alice follows the rabbit down a rabbit hole and ends up in the world she created and spends the rest of the movie exploring Wonderland and trying to find her way home.A classic movie that the whole family will love. 10/10 all the way.
Perhaps I am only in love with the movie because I am in love with the book but to be honest, I really don't like the stereotypical 'classic Disney' feel.A typical Disney movie has some storyline about a kid with one or no parents because one of them died in some tragic thing. They are always the 'good guy', and only 'bad guys' come after them. In Alice, the whole point of the movie is pretty much that it HAS no point.I like the book better, definitely People also fight over drug reference in Alice. I'm not sure if that was Lewis Caroll's original intention or not, but even if there is drug-ness, who cares? If it was indeed all drug created, and the mushrooms were shrooms, the hookah was pot, and the Hatter was on opium, at least its a fantasy that can be related back to realistic problems.And who doesn't like a trippy smiling cat, anyways?
I think I first became familiar with the title, 'Alice in Wonderland' when I saw a TV show of that name, but it wasn't long afterwards that I first saw this Disney adaptation of Lewis Carroll's stories. Just like probably every other animated Disney feature I saw in my childhood, other than 'Pocahontas', I enjoyed this one, and can recall seeing it several times. The last time I watched it was just last night, and watching it shortly after watching 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' and 'Pinoccio', I was mildly disappointed, but fairly satisfied in the end.One afternoon, a young girl named Alice is up on a tree branch, as she is read to from a history book. She is very bored by this book, and finds it hard to pay attention, so she begins to think of her fantasy world. Soon, she sees a talking White Rabbit, who is in a big hurry for some reason! She follows this rabbit into a burrow, and soon finds herself gradually falling down a hole! After she finally gets to the bottom, still following the White Rabbit, she comes to a small door with a living doorknob! After some struggle, she manages to get through, and enters Wonderland, where she sees many strange things that she has never seen before! After a while, she finds that this world is very confusing, and she no longer wishes to be there, but it appears that getting out and back home will be a challenge! Many Disney films have widely been considered masterpieces, and I can certainly give some of them that label myself! However, I personally can't do that with 'Alice in Wonderland', as I have definitely found some problems that bring it down. The songs in the movie generally aren't very memorable, and some parts are a bit dull, most notably the part with the talking flowers (which includes a very forgettable song). The Alice in this movie lacks a bit in her character and emotions. However, despite those shortcomings, this 'Alice in Wonderland' adaptation does have some amusing characters (such as the White Rabbit, Tweedledee and Tweedledum, Caterpillar, the Mad Hatter, etc.), humour, very interesting places that Alice finds herself in, and a fair amount of excitement, all of which it deserves some credit for.Like you would expect from Disney films, this one has a lot of entertain kids with (I know I enjoyed it way back), and has some things to entertain adults with, though maybe not as much as other Disney movies. Overall, 'Alice in Wonderland' is far from a perfect family feature, but if you're a Disney fan, regardless of your age, I think you would PROBABLY find something to like about it. Undoubtedly, many superior animated features have come from Disney through the decades, both before and after this one, but this one is a mixed blessing, with both memorable and forgettable elements.
The 13th animated Disney classic is, without a doubt, one of the most original, distinctive, imaginative and creative movies Disney ever made. It isn't a perfect movie but it sure makes the difference.Through the years the successive re-releases of this movie saved it, giving it the deserved credit and success, but when this initially came out in 1951 it was a failure and largely criticized.I heard that Walt Disney didn't like very much the character Alice because in his opinion she was cold. I don't see why Walt Disney had that opinion about her. There's nothing cold about her. I think she's a nice little girl. When she falls in despair, it's easy to feel sorry for her.Some parts of this movie are a bit weak, but that's not a major flaw. My least favorite character is obviously the Queen of Hearts. I don't like her at all. I guess nobody likes her, because she is meant to be hateable.But apart that this movie is full of awesome characters: the Cheshire Cat, the Dormouse, the Mad Hatter, the March Hare, the Caterpillar, the White Rabbit, the army of cards, Alice, Alice's sister, Dinah, the Doorknob and even strange creatures like a dog-broom, duck-horns, bird-mirrors, bird-cages, bird-pencils, etc...The creativity of this movie is not only on its peculiar characters, but also on its extravagant details: sceneries, gardens, places, original designs, etc...What also makes this movie so different is the personality of the characters: they're all mad, but hilarious (except the explosive Queen of Hearts, of course) and they do the craziest and silliest things. That makes them so funny. The silly humor of this movie is very classic, which is another big attribute.Only in 'Alice in Wonderland' you can see hilarious things such as the unbirthday tea party celebrated by the Mad Hatter, the March Hare and the cute Dormouse.Where else you can see such an enigmatic and cool character like the Cheshire Cat, a mad character with great sense of humor and the power of becoming invisible? Only in 'Alice in Wonderland', of course.Dinah (Alice's kitten) is one of the cutest Disney animals. She was drawn to be cute and adorable, like Figaro and others. The way she movies her little paws is so lovely and so is the way she chases Alice. To see kittens like Dinah and Figaro makes you wish to have a cat like that.Richard Haydn is hilarious as the Caterpillar, a character who speaks in a very calm way, but with a voice that seems to come from his nose and a short temper.The great Sterling Holloway has one of his most spectacular performances ever as the voice of the amazing Cheshire Cat.The unforgettable Ed Wynn gives such an energetic performance as the voice of the Mad Hatter and Jerry Colonna is great as the March Hare's voice.Bill Thompson is cool as the White Rabbit's voice. But I must say that Kathryn Beaumont is wonderful as Alice's voice, James MacDonald is fabulous as the Dormouse's voice, Joseph Kearns is funny as the Doorknob's voice and Heather Angel is awesome as the voice of Alice's sister. They're all great Disney legends.
Disney tries again to redevelop classic books the Disney way but fails miserably. This has got one of the strangest movie from Walt Disney. It's so weird and really clumsy. It doesn't capture the heart of the original Lewis Carroll novel. The plot is predictable, the dialogue is wrong and the characters are so stereotyped like Alice and the Dodo plus the minor characters like the card guards are creepy. On the whole it is better than 'Cinderella' (choke) but this doesn't change matters very much atoll! As least the movie this time around has some funny bits like the Tea Party and the monster in the White Rabbit's cottage plus there's is no bits that are just saccharine or paint by numbers or characters that are such a pain it's impossible to hate them! Overall, the movie is no good and I say that Disney films back then could only get worse before they got better!3/10
While 'Alice in Wonderland' isn't as highly regarded as many Disney feature cartoons, it's one of my favorites for many reasons. I love the colorful characters, especially the Mad Hatter and Cheshire Cat. The voice actors are letter perfect, no one else but Sterling Holloway could be the Cheschire Cat, Ed Wynn is the Mad Hatter and Jerry Collona is perfect voicing the March Hare. The various sequences are visually appealing and while the music isn't as memorable as 'Pinnochio', 'Dumbo' or 'Snow White', it suits the action. The animation is peak level with bright colors, sharp character drawings and smooth movement. I've watched more times than I can count and I'm sure the next time I watch it, I'll see things I missed before.
This was a colorful take on the famous story, both in animation and in story content. Overall, it was a fun movie with interesting, strange characters following each other as 'Alice' chases after a rabbit in 'Wonderland' (although that name is never mentioned in the film.).The songs in here are nothing noteworthy, but at least they didn't go on too long. For a short film - 75 minutes - it's good 'escapist' fare and not a bad way to spend an hour-and-a quarter. Any longer than that, for classic animated films, would be too long, because they didn't have the humor and slam-bang action scenes modern animated films possess.I would imagine kids of today would be bored by this, compared to what faster-paced stuff they see now....but that's no criticism of this movie, just about attention spans have shortened.
This is the most sarcastic movie that i have seen. 'Alice in wonderland', based in the story of Lewis Carroll, is our dear girl's imaginative adventure through a world in what is not, is exactly what is.With the magic touch of Disney and perfect drawings, 'Alice in wonderland' is a immortal, lively cheerful and disheveled comedy for the whole family. Alicia's qualities are beautiful. Alicia, a girl that wants to live in a different world... and, at the end, she realizes that it should appreciate what she has.This Disney classic will never be forgotten.PD: Hey, today is my no happy birthday too * Sorry for errors in sentences or letters
...to sit with my family and watch this classic, of course!!!!!Disney continued his top-notch work in 1951 with 'Alice in Wonderland,' based on a children's book, among many of these classics!!!!! Of course, many should find the following things familiar to those who like the movie and story: the rabbit (notable line: 'I'm late! I'm late! For a very important date!!!!!'), Alice, the shrinking (or was it growing? Long time!) potion, and of course, the mad tea party (I've enjoyed that teacup ride at Disneyland, spinning and spinning and spinning and spinning and...)! Don't forget the big cat that disappears, the mad hatter, and much more! Very colorful, very sweet, we love it!!!!!The good thing about this movie: well, see above!'Alice in Wonderland:' Don't be late for this date!!!!!10/10
On a warm summer afternoon, Alice is playing with her cat when she spots a white rabbit complaining that he is late for something. Curious, Alice follows the Rabbit and falls down the rabbit-hole. When she reaches the bottom of the hole, she finds herself in a crazy world where everything is topsy-turvy. She meets Tweedledee and Tweedledum. She discovers that certain foods can make her grow taller or smaller. She meets the ever-grinning Cheshire Cat. She joins the Mad Hatter and the March Hare in their crazy tea party. Alice finally meets the loud-mouthed Queen of Hearts, who challenges her to a croquet match, which is stopped short when Alice is accused of playing a prank on the Queen. After causing a disruption in her court trial, Alice wakes up, realizing that she had dreamed the whole thing.Walt Disney, ever since the 1930's, had always wanted to adapt Lewis Carroll's classic books to the screen, but had problems with the story. When he finally got the chance, he was disappointed with the result, and the film, unfortunately, was a box office failure. But the film is entertaining nonetheless. The characters are wonderfully brought to life, just the way Lewis Carroll wrote them. Wonderland is beautifully drawn, with the Disney animators giving it just the right amount of fantasy. The songs (some of which are adaptations of poems found in the ALICE books) are fun, especially 'A Very Merry Unbirthday'! The voice talent is perfect, with Kathryn Beaumount (later to become Wendy in Disney's PETER PAN) as Alice, Jerry Colonna as the March Hare, Ed Wynn (at his best) as the Mad Hatter, and Verna Felton (the fairy godmother in Disney's Cinderella, Aunt Sarah in LADY AND THE TRAMP) as the Queen of Hearts. Overall, this is one of Disney's best! Recommended. 10/10.
Even though I haven't read the books, ALICE IN WONDERLAND, in my opinion, is an excellent Disney classic about a bored young girl who gets a big surprise for all ages. The music was good, the production design was excellent, everyone was cast perfectly, the performances were top-grade, and the direction was flawless. However, there was only one thing that kind of gave me the creeps, and that was the queen (voice of Verna Felton). In conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent Disney classic about a bored young girl who gets a big surprise for all ages to anyone who hasn't seen it. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with someone close to you, and watch it. I guarantee you you'll thoroughly enjoy it.
I've got to admit that I was never much of a fan of Disney when I was a kid; and Alice in Wonderland is one in particular that I remember not liking. Based on the writings of Lewis Carroll, Alice in Wonderland tells the tale of a young girl in a mysterious world of wonders. The plot works by following Alice from one sequence (usually involving a weird and wonderful set of characters) to another, and by ensuring that every section of the movie is different; the film manages to stay interesting throughout. The stars of the show are undoubtedly the set of characters; and imaginative ideas such as the Mad Hatter, The Cheshire Cat, the Smoking Caterpillar and the Queen of Hearts are legendary. The animation is good, and by using bright colours; the film always seems otherworldly and fascinating. One criticism I can direct at the film stems from the central character - I'm not sure how old Alice is supposed to be, but she seems a bit to savvy to be a little girl. Even so, that's a small criticism and while I personally can't buy into a plot like this too much; I'm sure Disney fans will get a kick out of it.
Alice in Wonderland is, as well as what the one-line summary suggests, is one of the more abstracted kind of animated films the Disney studio has ever released. And it needs this edge for what the material requires. Here is a film that means different times throughout a life, for some people. As a kid it's a wondrous, madcap adventure with as much sincerity and polite little moments with Alice as it contains vision after vision where varied forms of caricatured anarchy and odd transformations in the guise of fables. As an older teen, it comes off more as seeming like a 'drug' movie, and of course Carroll's original story has become not just a phrase for 'through the looking glass' in society, but as part of metaphors for the drug community ('White Rabbit' is one of those classic, strange 60's songs that still works today). For what Carrol intended when he wrote the book - for his child friend named Alice - it's taken on other, surrealistic connotations over the centuries. With various allusions to such substances like the big-and-small pills, the caterpillar with the pipe, the hare and hatter with their 'tea', and the Cheshire Cat going in through the out door, it's not too hard to picture it as being a precursor to the 60s.But, of course, there is also that very innocent approach that the Disney films had of that early period. Alice is as innocent and day-dreaming as Snow White, though with a little more interest due to her having to be a formidable enough guide through this imaginative world. And there are little, surreal fables that are laced in that, again, capture the absurd poetic tone of Carroll's work. The segment with the Walrus and the Carpenter is a very good example of this, and is one of the funniest segments not only of the film but maybe of any Disney feature of the period. And stretching out after going into taking the ideas and images from the book into animated form, the abstractions become rather incredible for their time. As a kid as well as now I loved seeing the large Alice start to cry to the point of creating a dangerous sea of it right by the snobbish doorknob. The Cheshire Cat is one of those insane concoctions that is delightful in its unhinged abandon. The Queen of Hearts sequences towards the end are, for me, the only ones that are more closer to the 'traditional' Disney films where the looser, crazier nature that went on before with the March Hare and Mad Hatter took place (one of my all-time favorite Disney scenes by the way- that little mouse deserved some sort of prize).Overall, this is quite a treat to revisit years later- yes, even in a non-induced kind of state- with cheerful songs, and a neat balance of delirious humor and silly imagination. In short, a film like this probably couldn't be made today, at least by Disney.
I know I sound like I'm repeating myself all the time, but this movie is another example as to why today's society is not seeing this, and other films, in their glory because they don't work as well on the small television screens as they do the big magnificent movie house screens. To see films like this and The Wizard of Oz on the large movie house screen would make you feel like you're seeing these films for the first time.When Alice first came out, there were just a few people, like myself, who really liked it, but in it's initial release it flopped at the box office, and it was years before Disney entertained the idea of ever releasing it again, but then something happened. There was a museum, forget which one it was, in New York City, that was having a Disney Film Festival and they asked people to request the Disney films that they would like to see, and an amazing thing happened that the most requested was Alice In Wonderland. So, after the overwhelming response, Disney re-released Alice and it finally gained the popularity that it deserves and it's charm has been charming audiences at home ever since.But, this is typical of some films. In their initial release the were flops, but years later, like a good bottle of wine, the films age and finally become the hit films that they should be, but I think it goes further than just that. I believe that Disney's version of Alice In Wonderland was just too ahead of its time, and I think that that is what has made it such a hit today. Let's face it, the same thing happened to Fantasia that happened to Alice. Fantasia finally got the popularity that it really deserved when it played for many years in San Francisco, but that was because the pot smokers watched it under the influence and with the stereophonic sound, ran for many years! It may not have been the way Disney would have liked the movie to become famous, but nevertheless - it did!Disney artists were interviewed and they all claimed that Disney was very unhappy with the way the project was going, but the artists would look at the rushes and everyone ended up trying to out-do everyone else with making the characters out if left field, but through it all, the one who steals the show is the very laid back Cheshire Cat. 'Can you stand on your head?' It's admitted that the score for Alice is the best that Disney had in any of his movies, and even though out of release until the Museams Art Festival, the score has always been very popular! True, this is not Disney's best, but - of all his movies, it's the most fun!
If you ever feel like writing a book about nonsense, breaking the number 1 rule of ending it with 'it was all a dream' then making it so surprisingly popular that it is going to be the next big thing in Disney movie history then I ain't stopping yah! Alice in wonderland is just this, a cross between childish dreams and real life, the real life being that it was all a dream. However, when first watching this film I did consider the ending a spoiler but the second time I watched it, it captured my heart. The animation clarity may not be all that but the film most definitely is.Just like legendary Disney films such as 'The little Mermaid' and 'The Lion King' it will remain a family classic forever.But one thing that did bug me from time to time in the film was the way that Alice kept on giving into the temptation of curiosity, I don't know about you but if I saw a talking rabbit with a waistcoat, matching watch and gloves I'd leg it the opposite direction screaming for my mum. But it did capture the immense stupidity of most kids who just have to try some things even when they know it would lead to trouble. Those where the days eh?
I saw this movie recently and I think it's pretty good. It does have a strange storyline, but it's a different, refreshing type of movie. Unfortunately many people are obsessed with whether or not there's drug references in the movie and wonder if the author was on drugs while writing the book on which it's based. Personally I don't really care where the story came from as long as it entertains me. The music was pleasant and the animation was pretty good for the early 50's. I thought some of the characters were kind of annoying but that's just me. It's not the best movie I've seen, but it is worth watching once or twice. Some parts of the movie seem kind of frightening, like when she's lost in the Tulgey Wood and is crying because she can't find her way home again. So, yeah, it's not the best movie I've seen but I would definitely watch it a few times just to be acquainted with the story. Anyway, the movie is probably a lot easier to understand than the book would be.
This story is amazing it catches your audience with a simple moral be grateful for what you have and don't wish for anything more because it won't make you happy. The film is suppose to mess with your head and make you understand all the bad things that happen to Alice and the music is so good you don't notice that it is there. The drawings are great but if you noticed In the Mad Hatters tea party sequence, the Hatter and the Hare decide to 'mend' the White Rabbit's watch. After treating it with everything from butter to jam the watch starts to fly around the table and the Hare swipes it with a large mallet. Just as the mallet hits, the colour fades from the scene. why? many have speculated but nobody knows for sure. One theory is that bits of the original print went missing and all they could find was a black and white insert. However, it's a gradual fade across several frames - not a quick cut from colour to black and white - which perhaps indicates it was a deliberate 'effect'.
Obviously, our perception of Lewis Carroll's classic novel has been slightly altered by the quintessential '60s song 'White Rabbit'. Being the Disney movie that it is, 'Alice in Wonderland' now looks kinda hokey, but it does sort of maintain Carroll's wry humor. Still, after everything that's happened in the world since this movie came out - in fact, maybe all of world history - a Disney movie doesn't quite seem the same as it once might have. I know that this was during the heyday of Disney's animated features (think 'Cinderella' and 'Peter Pan'), but I wish to assert that their computer-animated movies from the past few years have actually been more clever ('Monsters Inc.', 'Finding Nemo').So overall, there's nothing particularly bad about this movie (the Mad Hatter has some neat lines). It's just that things have changed. No matter, I think that we can all agree that, to play off of a movie title, Alice still does live here after all.
Alice doesn't know it, but she's about to embark on a strange adventure. She meets many strange characters. This includes a Cheshire cat, two twins, Twidledee and Twiddledum, a Mad Hatter, a March Hare, and a furry white rabbit. It's the rabbit that really sets her off, and she tries to find him, but without much success. Strange things happen, and she comes across the Queen of Hearts, a vicious woman who's mean to everyone, including her tiny husband, the King if Hearts. Any card who's get out of order, gets their 'heads' off. I really don't get that part, since cards really can't talk, much less walk. But everything in this movie is fantasy.Not the best of the Disney movies, but only worth watching if you're 100% bored of other movies.My score: 3/10.
This movie is a gem in the Disney crown that can be viewed by all ages. This movie is about a proper girl that ends up falling into a land of wonder and fantasy. This movie manages to capture many aspects of the original novel but has been adapted so that children of all ages can enjoy. The voice acting for this movie is well done as with most Disney films at this time and the quality is simply stunning. The story rarely manages to keep good balance and keep you moving up and down. The movie does have some animated violence but no real blood is used. The songs are enjoyable if a bit dated but considering things as they are this music is something that is enjoyable and memorable.
Wonderland is the essence of what it is to be a child, to have an imagination, to bask in complete and utter nonsense, to revel in the chaos of dreams.Alice is all children. They want adventure, they want to giggle, they want flowers to sing and delightful little cakes to possess potent magic powers.The book is much less over the top. But the movie captures something else. Something far more extravagant. It's simpler and I think it benefits from being so simple. It's not trying to be clever. It doesn't need to.At its roots, this is a fantastical celebration of nonsense.
Snow White and I are the same age. I was born in September of 1937 and Snow White came on the scene slightly after in December of 1937. Except for Snow White, which I saw in it's re-release 7 years later, I have seen every Disney Animated Feature on its first release in the movie theaters.Concerning Alice in Wonderland: This is not Disney's best animated feature, but it's the most fun. Even if you don't like much of the film, The Mad Tea Party is worth sitting through this movie. Sure, it's really Disney's idea of what Alice in Wonderland was in his minds eye, or, was it? One animator on the film said that they would sneak in and see the rushes and it ended up who could out-do who in the film. Almost a contest! When Alice first appeared, the movie initially was a flop and taken out of release for many years because Disney felt he had failed to bring Alice to the screen. The film appeared in a shortened version on the early black and white T.V. show 'Disneyland', and then it seemed to disappear. Then years later, I believe it was in New York City, a museum was having a Disney Film Festival and the most requested film to appear was Alice, so they showed it and the audience loved it, so the Disney Studios heard of this and decided to release after many years being stored in the Disney Vaults. When they released it, I think, in the 1970's, it became the hit that it should have been when in it's first release, but just like a bottle of wine, Alice had to ferment and then become the hit that it deserved to be.The musical score had always been on recordings and when you come right down to it, it's one of Disney's best scores, if not the best! The music was what kept the film alive until it's re-release many years later. Finally it's enjoying the popularity it always has deserved.Oh, my goodness, what's this? A white rabbit? 'Oh Mr. Rabbit - waaaaitttt!' Sorry folks! Gotta follow that rabbit and find out what he's so late for! 'Oh, my rabbit! Waaaaiiiiit!' Running off it hot pursuit of the White Rabbit!
Excuse some of my spelling and writing... I'm slightly lazy to go into depth with this.The whole story is about a young innocent little girl seeing things that she has never seen before (AKA: DRUGS). She hop's down a Rabbit whole to which nothing seemed the same any more. From there she discovers a small bottle in which she grows extremely large. I believe this symbolizes Alchol). Alcohol can make you seem like your above the world in which you can do any thing (feeling when you hurt yourself when your drunk but you don't feel it). It escalates from alcohol to more extreme levels. The Catepillar seems to smoke hookah....But can we be sure? We can only infer from the facts.... the smoke is vivid with color, Little Alice inhales the colorful smoke accidentally (peer pressure), the Caterpillar seems to have no control over his body, the Caterpillar gets angry easily, not to mention he turns into a butterfly and flies away (High).Alice feeling perplexed and lost; just wants to go home. The Catepillar informs her of a solution... to eat a mushroom (shrooms)with some advice as too which side of the mushroom (good trip vs. bad trip). Then Alice meets the mad hatter, the hare, and the little mouse. (This Part I cant be sure if it is opium or coke... If id take a guess Id say they were doing coke). Tea = Caffine = extremely hyper = coke. A Rabbit ( the Hare) is a speedy creature as it is. For those of you who don't believe this movie has ne drug relation.... look at the mouse and don't tell me that mouse isn't on something. Alice then Faces the the queen ( Authority/ aka police). Then she sees every one in the movie in a trippy turn of events ( the big trip out) and all she wants to do is have it all end and go home.This movie is extremely satirical and has many drug relations.
Any number of Wonderland movies, treatments, stage plays and TV series have been filmed and every couple of years, someone tries again. IS Disney's the best? Best is a trifle irrelevant, as it presupposes that one version can poke its head above others in all categories. I tend to think of the Alice films as a series of oral histories; all of them deviate from the book in drastic ways, but each has good and bad points.For Disney, the plot (of which there is none in the classic masterwork) is Alice learning to pay attention to good advice and be more responsible. A bit heavy handed, perhaps, but it was 1951.This considerable sub-plot aside, the character treatments and voice actors are dead-on.There are a few 'stananks,' however. A few problems never addressed by Disney (corporate) in the fifty-plus years Alice has been out. The most egregious is the final segment of the tea party, which includes a scene animated, but never colored and two sections of animation and dialogue out of sequence. Likely, unfortunately, to remain out of sequence for all time, because Disney artists, being mainly priggish, tend to agree with Walt himself, who felt the film 'lacked heart'(read: had no love story)...and 'never made sense anyway.'So, what makes Disney's version so worth seeing? He gets the story wrong, he interposes characters i9n random order and leaves out half of them. Why is this the best-known version?Because it is the most memorable. The colors, the wonder, and the (hate to say this) magic are at a premium. This is the one I remember form my childhood, and it was 75 minutes that changed my life. Imagination lived in that wonderland, in a way rarely seen in today's cinema.
Recently I had the opportunity to watch Disney's old cartoon 'classic' Alice in Wonderland....the first time I have seen this movie since I was a very young kid. The movie itself was alright I suppose...though the dialouge certainly is pretty dated and the music pretty campy. However mostly I wanted to write this review to de-bunk some of the urban legends surrounding this story. Namely those of the 'many' drug references this story contains. Contrary to popular belief...there is actually no evidence that Lewis Carroll ever took any Hallucinogenic substances or narcotic substances in his life. The Lewis Carroll institute has preserved many of Carrolls letters and memoirs and none of these have references about Carroll 'experimenting' with any substance. Remember also that back in the 19th century no substances were actually illegal so there wouldn't have been any incentive for Carroll NOT to mention these in any of his letters. Now...there goes without saying that there are numerous 'questionable' scenes in both the book and this cartoon which certainly can be interpreted as being a subliminal drug message. My particular 'favorite' in the cartoon would have to be when Alice meets up with the caterpillar who is smoking a hooka on top of a large mushroom and the caterpillar changes color several times...As well as Alice eating a mushroom to become Taller or smaller. But like I said no actual evidence exists that this story was inspired by drug trips despite the popular culture opinion that it was.That being said...like I said the Dialouge in this cartoon is extremely dated...and the music mostly campy and unmemorable. But it still was semi-enjoyable due to its short length and for some of those 'subjective' scenes' I discussed in the previous paragraph.
I saw this film when I was a child and saw it again recently, and I disliked it just as much back then as I do now.I personally thought that the beautiful novel by Lewis Carroll was completely butchered by Disney. They took away some of the best parts of the story, and made it too 'cute', when in fact parts of the original book are actually quite disturbing. The only good bit about the film is the Cheshire Cat.The film is certainly extremely over rated.If you're a fan of Lewis Carroll then I would personally recommend avoiding this film. You will only be very disappointed.
It would seem that I have a great many complaints about various DVD releases of famous films(check out my reviews for 'Krakatoa, East of Java' and 'When Worlds Collide' if you don't believe me). Well I'm afraid nothing has changed.However, up front I must say that this is a brilliantly animated movie and will always be one of my favourites--despite the criticism that follows.When I purchased my first DVD copy of 'Alice In Wonderland' I was tempted to get rid of my videotape version.I'm very glad that I didn't and I'll tell you why.For three quarters of an hour I revelled in the story as well as the artwork involved.Then we got to the Mad Hatter's Tea Party.Possible Spoiler Here:No doubt something went wrong when the engineers were creating the digital transfer. Perhaps someone belched at the wrong time. That is the only explanation I can give for the transfer of two pieces of dialogue. Originally(and my tape version confirmed this) after the pocket watch has gone berserk(what watch wouldn't after having the likes of tea, salt, butter and jam inserted into its inner mechanism?)the White Rabbit says, '...and it was an Unbirthday present, too.' The Mad Hatter replies with, '...It Was?!' Then he and the March Hare throw the Rabbit out of their garden to the tune of the 'Unbirthday Song'. Well on the DVD the two conversations have been reversed making the conversation(and the whole sequence) irrelevant. For me it spoils an otherwise perfect film.In the hope of finding the problem had been corrected I purchased two more DVD copies. The first of these was the last region 2 release; it was no better than the previous copy. Finally, in desperation, I purchased a region 1 edition(the Gold Collection). You can probably imagine my disappointment when I discovered that the Americans must have suffered from the same problem!Regretfully I must conclude that ALL copies of Disney's 'Alice In Wonderland' suffer from the same complaint. The only thing I can do is to keep my tape copy(I have no idea how much longer it will last; it's showing considerable wear. I must have had it for at least ten years and maybe longer) until as such time as Disney rectify this irritating situation.I have never read the books so I'm unable to comment on that aspect of AIW. All I can say is that the film looks and sounds marvellous.I give the film 9 out of 10 because of the above criticism.
Among all the Disney cartoons I have seen (and I think I've probably seen them all, until 'Taram...', in 1983), 'Alice in Wonderland' remains my favorite one. Of course, it has a lot of differences, comparing to the wonderful book from Lewis Carroll, but Walt Disney managed to give a strange object, without a real classical story (with a starting and an ending), which gives this film a funny 'experimental side'... And I particularly love the beautiful colors in this film. It simply makes you want to follow Alice, who follows herself the White Rabbit, in the wonderland. Maybe 'Alice in Wonderland' is more an 'adult cartoon'.
Now here's a Disney film unlike any other. Singing walruses, vanishing cats, lunatics in the woods, a psychotic queen, a hookah-smoking caterpillar, warbling flowers, psychotropic food and drink...this actually sounds like an Andy Warhol film to me. But no, it's Disney. What's interesting about this film, to me, is that the more charming the various critters are, the creepier they become. Look at Tweedle-Dee and -Dum. My girlfriend doesn't even like to think about them. There's something indefinably distasteful about the two of them gamboling in the dark forest, waiting for a new playmate. Or the queen, with her unnatural delight in decapitation.I take it back: it doesn't sound like Andy Warhol. It sounds like David Lynch with cute songs.
This a great movie. At the start of the movie you see Alice and her sister. Then the fun begins when Alice sees a white rabbit. She decides to follow him. It seems the best of curiosity got her. She follows the Rabbit with Dinah her cat down the rabbit hole. There she meets the doorknob and cries herself to tears which makes the doorknob let her get in. She passes by the Dodo. Along the journey she meets some fun loving characters including the hilarious Cheshire Cat and more of Lewis Carol's creatures. This is a movie you definitely can't miss. I love this movie so much because it has the coolest characters of any Disney movie ever made and some of the songs are stuck somewhere in the back of my head. What makes it a Disney Classic is that it is created with the imaginations of two young artist known today as Walt and Roy Disney...
When I was a kid, this used to be quite a good animated film from Walt Disney Pictures, a bit more aimed at girls and readers of the famous book by Louis Carol, but good. Alice is listening to her boring older sister reading History research and then she is distracted by a white rabbit in clothes with a watch. She follows this rabbit into a rabbit hole which leads to Topsy-turvy world of Wonderland. In this world there are talking locked doors, talking Dodos, twin fat blokes that squeak called Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum, a Mad Hatter (voiced by Mary Poppins Uncle Albert, Ed Wynn) and a March Hare, a nasty Queen with a deck of cards as guards and many other bizarre things. Alice later gives up wondering about the rabbit and tries to find her way home. Will she get out, or will the Queen have head chopped off for making her lose her temper? It was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Good!
Honestly, When I was about 3 or Four was when Alice first hit Video- sometime in the early 80's- and it was, by far, my favorite movie. Although, having bought it last year as the two disc special edition- I realized that it didn't feel as magical as it did when I was younger, but it is, in my humble opinion, although flawed, the best film adaptation. Flawed? Well, I don't understand why Walt would 'Condense' the two books- being a pioneer, in not just animation, but in film all together (thank him for foreign dubbing, original soundtracks, and surround sound) it seems odd that Walt, although firm in his principles (Unlike the Disney half A$$ed approach to their animation in the last 6 or 7 years)- he was ever the businessman, and two movies could have faired well (back then the straight to video watered down make the money but don't spend too much on them sequels and prequels)- Which also make one wonder with all the crappy sequels Disney comes up with- why not make a sequel that actually exists? Aside from that, the movie still maintains the imagination of Lewis Carroll's original work, through the fantasy, and even a little darkness, and Beaumont's voice work as Alice is still the only one to talk to herself and still sound sincere, rather than crazy or forced like all the others (one that stands out is the Fiona Fullerton Alice who left me annoyed. The songs are tolerable, not as catchy as most Disney fare, and although the film seems, at times, like an acid trip, it's responsible for how we see Alice today (another ability attributed to Disney- name any Disney character based on literature or fable, and chances are you'll see the Disney one- Snow White- Blue and Yellow Dress? And the Classic Pooh always gets overshadowed by Disney's Winnie, and pre Disney, the Little Mermaid generally had Blonde Hair, and a blue tale, bet you saw a fiery little redhead with purple shells and green fins.) With the advancement in technology and the amazing ability to do almost ANYTHING in movies nowadays, why hasn't anyone created the next great Alice in Wonderland? Overall, It's Diney, it's a classic, and if you're going to watch an Alice movie- stick with this one.
For a lot of people on this site, this is either one of thew best Disney movies or one of the worst. There is about 40 animated Disney movies and my personal favourite will always be the mad world of Wonderland. I don't actually know why but to me this is what i always thought about as a child, a mad world where simply nothing made sense. It goes like dynamite at only seventy two minutes and in that they have an array of entertaining characters and fourteen entertaining songs. To me it is the genius of Disney creating an entertaining look at a child's world. I think it is because of the Jungle Book that this is not as popular as some of the Disney Classics but you can't help but smile when you watch the Queen of hearts and the Mad Hatter being their own creative self's in the wonder of this amazingly clever gem
After being disappointed with the supposed 'remastered DVD' of the '72 Shaftel production, I decided to give the renowned animated Disney version a chance. The last thing I remembered hearing about it was my grade school English teacher giving it a thumbs down.But, hey... it's Disney! How bad could it be? Well, the animation itself is fine, but the story execution is abysmal. It's like a Waner Brothers' Looney Tune gone bad, and, considering the contention between the two studios at the time, I'm sure that comment's not too far off the mark.In Disney's offering Alice traipses from one bizarre episode to the next, seemingly for the sake of it (though she's supposed to be following the white rabbit, but, in my opinion, Alice doesn't give the audience sufficient impetus for her actions, other than the fact that she's curious). In other versions there's a kind of child-like cohesion to Dodgson's tale, but this one really zig-zags all over the place, and without rhyme or reason.The voice acting is fine, the songs, for what they are, are OK, and as I mentioned the animation is up to Disney's extremely high standards. But the rest of it, the actual story structure (and what little plot there is) just is scattered, making watching this very technically well done animated film a chore to watch.Well, Disney's learned the lesson of trying to be and create the kind of product they're not known for, and it seems to have stuck for the most part. They weren't WB then, and it shows.Myself, I'm at a real loss as to why people heap praises on this film. It may be the upbeat and high energy delivery, but, personally, I prefer the more sedate and character driven approach.Well, to each his own. If you like it, then enjoy. Otherwise take advice from my English teacher; if haven't already seen it, don't.
While her aunt reads her a story by the riverside, young Alice notices a white rabbit and chases it down a rabbit hole. At the bottom of the hole she finds an entirely new world populated by all manner of strange characters. Struggling to get her head around the confusing things she sees and hears, Alice wants nothing more than to get back home but it doesn't look like being an easy task  certainly not once the Queen of Hearts gets involved.It seems strange to think that, given my familiarity with the Alice books, that I had never seen the Disney version until it came on television one Sunday morning. The first thing that struck me was that, not having seen an older animated feature for quite a few years, the animation is almost unbearable cute and colourful. I know this is less about the period and more about the studio but I found it a little harder to get into for that reason. I did get past this very quickly thought and did find that the colourful characters were still quite fun even if it rather took away from the sense of wonder that I wanted to feel by being in this magical new world full of strange characters  by animating them in this way the whole thing felt, well, almost ordinary. Likewise the Disney style of humour didn't totally suit the wit of the books and, although it did get it at times, the film felt more about bright colours than about wit and charm.The characters are pretty well imagined but I would have liked them to have more personality rather than just being made into standard Disney creations. Of course this is a minor complaint because they are still good and I'm aware I'm judging the film by modern taste  perhaps unfairly. It still works well enough to be worth seeing, the songs are average but there aren't too many of them and the story will still be of great value to children who will love it regardless.Overall this is a fun and enjoyable cartoon but the mix of books and failure to really deliver the qualities of wit and childhood wonder marked it down to be not as good as I had hoped. My suggestion would be to read the books yourself of course but if you need a cartoon version to get the kids into it then this is definitely worth a look.
For material that does not lend itself very easily to cinema, this is a pretty good adaptation of 'Alice in Wonderland' with some enjoyable characters and sequences. It succeeds, at least in a basic way, in capturing part of the manic but imaginative nature of Lewis Carroll's story.Much of the language, poetry, and ideas that make the original story so captivating cannot really be conveyed very easily in a movie, and so it would be nearly impossible for any cinema version of Alice to be completely satisfying to those who love the book. Instead, this version simply tries to make the characters come to life, and to use the animation to recreate the feel, if not the depth, of Alice's experience.The animation drives most of the movie, and at times it is pretty imaginative. Some of the voices work very well, too, with the likes of Ed Wynn and Sterling Holloway fitting the animated characters quite well.Carroll's stories are so enchanting and creative that it is no surprise that there have been so many efforts through the years to capture the magic of the Alice stories on film. None of the cinema versions has yet come close to matching the books, yet the material itself has made most of them worth watching. In this one, the overall production has a definite Disney style to it, which makes it different from the original, but as a movie it works pretty well.
Walt Disney was the perfect man to adapt 'Peter Pan' to film. After all, J. M. Barrie's classic novel was an attempt to fit everything a child could dream of into one story -- Elves, Pirates, Mermaids, Indians, feasts, flying, and never growing up -- and Disney was just the type for such gleeful excess.Amongst the film's many delights is the inclusion of the first great Disney villain: Captain Hook. Earlier antagonists were either lacking in character (the Evil Queen), too metaphorical (the various goons from 'Pinocchio'), or too human (Lady Tremaine). Captain Hook is nothing of the sort: a larger-than-life, moustache-twirling evil-doer. And such a wonderful mix of traits. He is elegant yet brutal, cunning without being smart, intimidating and charming at the same time, and unquestionably funny.The film's highlight is the Skull Cave scene, wherein Pan and Hook try to outwit each other (to the obvious detriment of the latter). The slapstick is some of the best ever put to film. The succession of perfectly timed punches always has me tearing up with laughter.And it is with such childish glee that I revisit 'Peter Pan'. For us poor folks who could not escape growing up, stirring our inner child every once in a while will have to do.
This movie incapsulates all the childhood wonder of ones life. Far off places, magical creatures and talking Mermaids. To start, the imagination that went into a movie like this is amazing, it is obvious that the writers cared about their craft. The animation is extremely beautiful with the wide range of colors they had to use at their disposal. The landscapes are some of the most iconic parts of this movie. The characters are all particularly memorable and funny in their own right. Peter Pan is voiced immensely well by the late Bobby Driscoll. Captain Hook is one of the most unique villains in all of Disney as he comes off as more funny and threatening then scary and intimidating. But not to be overlooked, the moral of this story still brings a tear too many eyes as this films ingrains all the child like wonder back into the audience as Peter Pan soars through the London sky. The final scene perfectly blends the moral of growing up and wanting to stay young all together. The movie however is not without its faults, the musical numbers are far and between, some racial imagery aged very poorly and the episodic nature holds the film back from really feeling like a full length feature. This is a fun movie that should be watched at least once. However, I never find myself coming back to it often.
I like both previous works of Disney and the ones which followed this film. Snow White, Pinocchio, Fantasia, Bambi, The Little Mermaid, Aladdin, The Lion King and others, but Peter Pan in its turn looks odd among these pretty pictures. It is dull and hasty at the same time. Peter Pan looks like a bad and selfish character, so I even feel sorry for Captain Hook. The main character looks like a bad example for children, though he shouldn't. Tinker Bell looks too jealous that she even could get other people killed to be the only friend for Peter. And the father of the children is portrayed in an irritating way at the beginning of the movie, not to mention the way they portrayed Indians. The movie had its potential, but it doesn't live up to it. The only good aspects are voice actors' work, animation and some interesting moments. Peter Pan is not the movie you should watch for sure. Better watch the ones I listed before.
Classic Disney film. Kids love it. All the triggered wimps complain of tinker bell's outfit or the Indian song. Geeze get a life. We watch it as a family along with all the Disney classics.
Peter Pan is a legendary Disney movie. I do not remember it that much from my childhood though... In fact, I think I have never seen the entire movie until now... The quality is perfect for its age, though!
I went in with high expectations, came out disappointed. It meanders around the plot and has some *ahem* 'questionable' racial stereotypes. It's childish, which isn't a bad thing, but it's not really for me.
This is truly classic Disney. Wild, imaginative, and so endearing, Peter Pan is everything I love about the original Disney movies! With a wonderfully quirky setting, loveable characters, and a daring and crazy plot, this is definitely a movie everyone should see.
I'm starting to think the really early Disney stuff might not be my thing.I mean it's not bad, but I would be quite hard-pressed to name anything I remember about this a week later, except maybe the crocodile. He was pretty funny.Oh, and all the racism. Sweet lord there was a lot of racism.And annoying voice acting, and bland characters, and am I the only person who thinks the opening is weirdly confusing? Like, who exactly is Peter Pan and why and how do you have his shadow?The animation is great for the time, and I liked the story and music a little bit more than Snow White, but then some other things were a little worse. Like all that racism. And to some degree, the characters, unfortunately. Some of them are just plain annoying to me.And all that racism though
I found a VHS tape of Disney's Peter Pan and as had never seen it, and as I'm now in my 70's, and generally a great fan of early Disney animated fairy tales, I thought it would be fun to spend the morning with a Disney classic. I was surprised to find such a large part of the movie devoted to fighting with swords, knives, etc. as well as a bomb explosion. That was not the worst, however. The stereotyped presentation of the Native American tribe complete with the song 'What Made the Red Man Red' was so awful, it would have made some of the 1950's 'Cowboys and Indians' Westerns seem sensitive and enlightened in comparison. I would not want to show this movie to any children. There was even a glimpse into our fat-shaming present as Tinkerbelle sees a reflection of her legs and hips and tries to make them look more slender. Great animation but consign this film to history.
The only part I found interesting is the first 15 minutes or so, before he actually showed up.
When it comes to pre-CGI animation from Disney Studios' heyday (1942-1958) - 'Peter Pan' is (IMO) one of the top-of-the-line productions (on all counts).But, of course, since 'Peter Pan' comes from the early 1950s - The viewer cannot harshly judge its story-line by today's 'politically correct' standards. 'Cause, otherwise, if they do - Then - This children's picture will be completely ruined for them once the characters have entered into the fantastic realm of Neverland.
Don't get me wrong I love Alice in wonderland but Peter Pan is better.. this is always compared to alice but I seriously am team Peter Pan. Just imagine going to neverland and having the time of your life! The movie was beautiful the characters are charming and neveland is just magical <3
Children kidnaped by immature elf, team up to abuse handy capped elder with PTSD. Some crocodile scenes may be too intense for younger viewers.
Good watch, probably won't watch again, but can recommend for fans of Peter Pan that have seen other versions.Wow, I feel as if I've never seen this movie before: this is something that happens when you learn to watch movies critically and rewatch childhood favorites.I'm continuously enlightened to how awful Walt Disney was. This movie is filled with insensitive nonsense, particularly to Native Americans, and the majority of the characters are just awful people, to include Peter Pan and Tinkerbell. Wendy is the only 'pure' character in the entire movie, and I feel as if I'm reaching there. Tiger Lily might be a competitor, but she doesn't DO much, so it's hard to tell.With such a wonderful premise, and Disney's level of production value, you would think this would hold up, even after 70 years, but I honestly am beginning to think this was so widely accepted for a lack of options.Don't get me wrong, the actual story is both 'close enough' to the original story, and well enough structured that a reboot would probably be very close to this version. It's all stylistic choices in both animation, dialogue, and character presentation that could easily be cleaned up, and likely should have been.While I could probably rant for an hour just on the 'love' triangle happening in this (I am completely in camp Tinkerbell), this is supposed to be 'boy who never grew up'. While that lends to the jealousy factors, the amount and inconsistency of details on everything about the place being magical tends to distract from it.You'll notice that Peter no longer has human ears, he has pixie ears, and the boys supposedly killed and skinned giant animals so they could wear their skins as pajamas: where are the rest of the animals?The pirates have been there long enough to get restless, though there are enough of them left, despite Hook just shooting them dead on occasion, but not long enough to mutiny or properly search the one island, but long enough to have a weirdly specific history between Peter Pan and Hook and the crocodile.It's a weird movie: it's still worth a watch, but I'd watch it with your kids as opposed to just on their own.
Sadly, though undeniably, the first thing that comes to mind when recalling 'Peter Pan (1953)' is its poor portrayal of Native Americans and, more specifically, its downright offensive song 'What Made The Red Man Red'. I don't think I need to delve into that particular set-piece any more deeply; I mean, the title says it all. All I'll say is that it's a truly embarrassing and cringe-inducing sequence which ultimately overshadows quite a lot of the overall experience. Having said that, the film isn't terrible. When it isn't being blatantly outdated, it's a relatively breezy romp about a boy who never grew up and the children he takes on a tour of his otherworldly homeland. The best elements of the narrative surround the dastardly Captain Hook, a pirate who is animated with much more life and exaggeration than almost everyone else around him. He's a decent villainous presence and the scenes which involve him are typically the best in the entire affair. They're expressive and exciting, exactly what you'd expect from an animated adventure involving a flying child and a pirate ship. A lot of the movie isn't as energetic, though. Much of the animation feels somewhat stiff in a typically rotoscoped sort of way and the plot is pretty dull in the grand scheme of things. It isn't bad, aside from when it really is (see the aforementioned song and dance number), but it isn't as compelling as much of the long-running studio's other work. The film is decent enough, though, and should - if nothing else - spark a conversation surrounding the inappropriate representation of minorities in media. 6/10
This film was very imaginative but overall just decent. The main strengths are visual, like all the characters and flying sequences. The other aspects were not as strong.
'Peter Pan' is more than enjoyable.There is lots of fun to be had in this film. The animation is lovely, especially for Tinker Bell. The songs are good and catchy, while you have two entertaining main characters in Pan and Hook. It could've done with better humour, but what's there is absolutely satisfactory.Pan is voiced by Disney regular Bobby Driscoll, whilst Hans Conried voices Hook. They are both brilliant, especially the latter who is joined nicely by Smee (Bill Thompson) and a tick-tocking crocodile.The characters could do with more depth, as could the story as it is a rather simple one. The film also has its faults, most notably with their stereotypical portrayal of Indians which certainly doesn't make for pleasant viewing.In conclusion, for a family film from 1953 it serves its purpose and then some without forgetting the aforementioned.
This is great movie. Great in that way, that is masterpiece. But, only reason why I would not let my kid or anyone else's kid to watch it is, or to read book - is origin of story. It is heartbreaking. Kids would love it, but when they realize, that story is written like good wish for Barrie's friend's passed 6-year-old daughter. And this is his representation of afterlife. Also,his brother died too young. I read a lot of things about this man. Man who was married twice - without children. I will say this too.After all this years, after book was published, people are divided about his good will towards children. He adopted his other friend's sons. And lot of people are not thinking at any moment, that maybe he didn't have kids because he too much wanted them, and this stories and this last thing were only way for him to be a father.
This movie is good. The animation is very beautiful
This movie is good. Characters memorable. Thinker Bell is so good
An ideal subject for Walt Disney this one - a charming, humorous adventure with great characters. Before you start watching, do bear in mind that JM Barrie created the 'Peter Pan' character at the very start of the 20th century, so some of the language and roles are a touch on the stereotypical side - but that ought not to unduly spoil this experience. The 'Darlings' are a loving, but pretty dysfunctional family with a huge great dog 'Nana' whose three children all share the nursery in the attic of the family home. 'Peter' visits and with the help of his friendly sprite 'Tinker Bell' takes the youngsters on a series of magical adventures in 'Never Land' where nobody ever grows up. The legendary 'Captan Hook' is his local adversary, hell bent on repaying 'Peter' for causing him to lose his hand to a crocodile who is equally determined to eat the rest of him! There's a bit of depth to the characterisations - the story might be a 'love' story; but it is certainly one that introduces loyalty, trust, jealousy and comradeship to youngsters in a thoroughly engaging, plausible way. There is plenty of action too - a wonderful sword fight; lots of flying and the carefree attitude of the children is really quite contagious. The animation is once again, expertly hand-crafted, with vivid colours that help convey a lot of the joy of the film. Bobby Driscoll does a super job with the title role, too - it's a smashing film.
A timeless fairy tale, animated with passion and enthusiasm by the fabulous Disney old-timers (this would be the last time the 'nine old men' collaborated on a film), trimmed of fat and hoisted, wriggling and fighting, onto the silver screen. Every frame is alive, ecstatic and energetic, with a heavy emphasis on stylized action and far less of the obvious frame-traced roto-scoping seen in Snow White or Cinderella.Loaded with garish personality and iconic character designs, it's effortlessly magical, jolly and carefree; enduring in many of the same ways as The Wizard of Oz. Breathless and mischievous, perhaps a bit old-fashioned, though such genuine wholesomeness never really goes out of fashion, provided it comes from the heart. The opening act may take a little while to get moving, but once the kids are sprinkled with pixie dust and the whole crew takes flight, it's nonstop action and adventure to the very end. I forgot how much of a feisty, jealous little thing Tinkerbell could be.
Peter Pan is a magical Disney classic. Watching this movie again as an adult brought back so happy thoughts of thinking I could fly and dreaming about living in Neverland. And I loved seeing my kids' eyes light up with the same thoughts. The story is simple, yet the characters are timeless, and the songs are memorable. It's not a perfect movie, but it's a wonderfully told story.
I like this movie. Incredible, i can remember the first time i watched this movie
Act 1 - 6.5Act 2 - 7.0Act 3 - 7.0
Film is about the innocence and imagination of childhoodParents are always so quick to want the kids to grow up but should let their kids be kids and enjoy the joys that come with itFun and imaginative film with good animationLike all the characters and keeps the story lightGood animated film all aroundKids believe in the story of Peter Pan but father doesn't and hates the games the kids play and is angry at everything and wants Wendy to grow upPeter and Tinkerbell show up at the Darling house to retrieve his shadow and Wendy sews back on her shadowPeter wants to take Wendy to Neverland so she doesn't have to grow up and can keep telling his stories, Tink is very jealous of WendyPeter teaches the Darling's how to fly and they leave for NeverlandMeet Hook and his pirates and Hook is set on finding Peter Pan for taking his hand and feeding it to a crocodile and making him have a hook as a handPeter and gang arrive and are met with fire from Hook and send the Darlings to follow Tink to safety but Tink gets the lost boys to shoot down Wendy saying it was Peter's orders and Peter saves her from fallingThe Lost Boys rat on Tink and Peter banishes herMichael and George get to live out their childhood fantasies with the lost boysThe Indians capture the boys and Tiger Lily is missing and the boys are in troublePeter and Wendy go to see the mermaids and they are jealous of Wendy tooSee Hook has captured Tiger LilyPeter has his fun with Hook and Smee and they have to retreat from the crocodile and Peter saves Tiger LilyHook learns about Tink being banished and wants to get her on his sideDated view of Native Americans and a drug scene too with a pretty racist songTiger Lily likes Peter too, every female on the island is in love with PeterSmee captures Tink and takes her to Hook and use her jealousy against Peter and reveals his hideout and the locks her upWendy reminds the kids they need a mother in their life and must go home in the morning and everyone wants to go home but Peter doesn't want to grow upThe pirates capture the lost boys and the Darlings and take them too the shipTink breaks out and saves Peter from the bombPeter and Tink arrive at the ship and save Wendy from walking the plankFighting ensues on the ship and Peter and the gang win and Hook and the pirates must leave forever and Hook is chased out by the crocodilePeter and everyone fly the ship back home to LondonSee the parents arrive back the same night at midnight and Wendy is sleeping by the windowWendy says the lost boys and Peter returned to Neverland and says she's ready to grow up but parents say there is no rush and tells them her storyLook to the sky and see a cloud that looks like a ship outside and childhood returns to the fatherThe innocence of childhood and the things we can make up to have funI believe that it was all in Wendy's head
.
Another Disney masterpiece. Excellent storyline, thrilling action, absolutely delightful, and the tune you can fly will bring a tear to your eye, but maybe the last part's just me. The only problem is, this is a Disney movie where some real sexist comments and stereotypes come out. However, it's an old movie, and people had a different way of thinking in 1953 than they do today. Overall, an absolute delight to watch, and a must see Disney classic!
Act 1 - 6.5Act 2 - 7.0Act 3 - 7.0
Film is about the innocence and imagination of childhoodParents are always so quick to want the kids to grow up but should let their kids be kids and enjoy the joys that come with itFun and imaginative film with good animationLike all the characters and keeps the story lightGood animated film all aroundKids believe in the story of Peter Pan but father doesn't and hates the games the kids play and is angry at everything and wants Wendy to grow upPeter and Tinkerbell show up at the Darling house to retrieve his shadow and Wendy sews back on her shadowPeter wants to take Wendy to Neverland so she doesn't have to grow up and can keep telling his stories, Tink is very jealous of WendyPeter teaches the Darling's how to fly and they leave for NeverlandMeet Hook and his pirates and Hook is set on finding Peter Pan for taking his hand and feeding it to a crocodile and making him have a hook as a handPeter and gang arrive and are met with fire from Hook and send the Darlings to follow Tink to safety but Tink gets the lost boys to shoot down Wendy saying it was Peter's orders and Peter saves her from fallingThe Lost Boys rat on Tink and Peter banishes herMichael and George get to live out their childhood fantasies with the lost boysThe Indians capture the boys and Tiger Lily is missing and the boys are in troublePeter and Wendy go to see the mermaids and they are jealous of Wendy tooSee Hook has captured Tiger LilyPeter has his fun with Hook and Smee and they have to retreat from the crocodile and Peter saves Tiger LilyHook learns about Tink being banished and wants to get her on his sideDated view of Native Americans and a drug scene too with a pretty racist songTiger Lily likes Peter too, every female on the island is in love with PeterSmee captures Tink and takes her to Hook and use her jealousy against Peter and reveals his hideout and the locks her upWendy reminds the kids they need a mother in their life and must go home in the morning and everyone wants to go home but Peter doesn't want to grow upThe pirates capture the lost boys and the Darlings and take them too the shipTink breaks out and saves Peter from the bombPeter and Tink arrive at the ship and save Wendy from walking the plankFighting ensues on the ship and Peter and the gang win and Hook and the pirates must leave forever and Hook is chased out by the crocodilePeter and everyone fly the ship back home to LondonSee the parents arrive back the same night at midnight and Wendy is sleeping by the windowWendy says the lost boys and Peter returned to Neverland and says she's ready to grow up but parents say there is no rush and tells them her storyLook to the sky and see a cloud that looks like a ship outside and childhood returns to the fatherThe innocence of childhood and the things we can make up to have funI believe that it was all in Wendy's head.
Some yikers are to be found, but its a doze off movie. watched for it being a classic but apart from that not much but a high produced kids movie with some great mind behind it.5/10: yee
Oh my god the classic music is so wonderful
and even Drawing is generally is simple but You can recognise the hard work.
Between Pinnochio and this, I think these Indian stereotypes are really starting to get annoying.
Of the hundreds and hundreds of Disney movies out there, Peter Pan will always be one of the first to mind for fans. The movie is an absolute classic that is a perfect example of the Disney movie magic. The Disney studios were fantastic at creating movies with catchy songs and relatable characters. Songs like 'You Can Fly', 'Following The Leader', and 'Second Star To The Right' are some of the most iconic tunes the studios has produced. Still to this day, characters like Pan, Captain Hook, the crocodile, and Tinker Bell are used and loved both in the park(s) and in merchandise.Peter Pan does a great job at taking you away from the streets of London and dropping you off in Neverland. Although the film is short, it does a great job at making you feel like you've actually seen Neverland.* Join my journey of watching every Walt Disney Studios film. All videos selected at random from the official D23 film list. (Included: Muppets, Pixar, Star Wars) (Excluded: Marvel, Touchstone, Fox, and Other Studios)
Peter Pan is such a wonderful family film to watch. It's exciting, laughter throughout the movie, love, and thrilling moments!!! An overall AMAZING CAST AND STORYLINE!!! I WOULD HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE TO ANYONE!!! A+++ Film.
JM Barrie's original 1911 novel is one of my all-time favorite books. It's sweet, surreal, dark, strange, and ultimately haunting. It's been adapted hundreds of times for film and stage, and the 1953 Disney classic is one of the best-known versions. Does it hold up? Yes... but also no.I'll start with the things I loved.
First is the art and animation. Simply gorgeous. Like all Disney films, the animation is top-tier, but Peter Pan manages to stand out even among the other Disney classics. The scene of Peter and the Darling children flying through London, the lush jungles of Neverland, the pirate-caused mayhem... It's simply amazing. Major props to the Disney animators who brought this beauty to life.The music (with the exception of one painfully dated song, see below) is also fun, which is typical for Disney films.Some of the characters are also splendidly portrayed. Wendy (perfectly voiced by Kathryn Beaumont) is spot-on, as is Nana the nurse-dog. This version of Tinkerbell is in many ways the definitive version, and I like that she captures all of the malice and sassiness that's present in the original book.The Tick Tock crocodile loses the menace of the original, but the Disney-fied version of the croc is still very enjoyable in its own right.But the best characters are undoubtedly Captain Hook and Mr. Smee. Although I love Barrie's enigmatic Hook from the original play and book (and Jason Isaac's ingenious portrayal in the 2003 live-action version), the Disney Hook is a brilliant comedy creation and a winner in his own right. Smee is equally fun and effortlessly wins big laughs.Truly the most hilarious scenes feature Hook and Smee. One of the highlights is the battle at Skull Rock. Although it lacks the delicious sinister mood of the original book and the 2003 version, I still find Disney's take on the scene to be extremely enjoyable and often laugh-out-loud funny. Hook frantically attempting to escape the croc's jaws, all the while screaming for Smee to come to his aid, is some of the best slapstick ever put to animation. The scene reaches its peak when Smee swings his oar, meaning to brain the croc, only to have Hook emerge from the croc's jaws and take the clobbering instead. Perfectly timed!Another scene that showcases the slapstick brilliance of Hook and Smee is the bit where Smee attempts to sooth the frazzled pirate with a shave.
Smee wraps Hook's scruffy face in a hot towel, but fails to notice when a female seagull flies down and uses the towel as her nest, settling in like a brooding hen. Smee lathers what appears to be the captain's face ...but is really the gull's rear end. The scene only escalates from there, with Smee shaving off feathers and exposing the seagull's bare bottom. There's a classic double-take reaction as the seagull, upon having her bottom patted with aftershave, finally turns around and gasps in horror. She quickly leaves the towel 'nest,' flying away while crying and attempting to cover her clean-shaven fanny.
Smee, meanwhile, finds the empty towel and mistakingly believes that Hook's head has been shaved off! Cue the search for the missing pirate head. The scene is simply a must-watch for fans of slapstick mayhem.So the positives: beautiful art and animation (thanks to the talented animators), mostly great music, several awesome characters, and side-splitting comedy.The negatives:In some ways, the Disney version dumbs down aspects of the original. Mr. Darling is reduced to a raving jerk instead of the hypocritically immature but lovable father Barrie presents in the book.Even worse is Peter Pan himself. Barrie writes him as a true child: eager, selfish, and ignorant, but ultimately tragic in that he will never grow up and loses and forgets everything and everyone he loves.
In contrast, the Disney version of Peter acts like a rude '50s American greaser. He's unlikable, and it's no surprise the filmmakers themselves criticized the character after the film's release.And finally, worst of all, is the portrayal of the 'Natives.' The original book does include some poor stereotypes and terms, but nothing compared to the racism of 'What Makes the Redman Red.' All of the Natives (except the mute Tiger Lily) are drawn as the exact same caricature: big noses, bright red skin, ugly faces. It's embarrassing.
I don't agree with censorship and don't think the film should be re-edited. But parents should use those scenes as a chance to talk with their children about harmful stereotypes. When I watched this with my 8-year-old, I made sure to discuss how such racism was wrong then and is wrong now.These weak points are clear blemishes on what could have been a great adaptation, but despite these flaws, I still find the film enjoyable overall thanks to the amazing animation, music, comedy, and several great characters.
I have seen this cartoon movie many times and I liked the music and animation and the story, but unfortunately some of the characters are bad like 'Peter Pan.' and 'Tinkerbell'. Yes Hook is a villain but a victim of bullying and now has a disability caused by the jerk Peter Pan, decapitating his hand and throwing his hand to the crocodile, thankfully was never shown or it would've gone from PG to PG-13.The story starts off, George is going to the party and his family members his wife his kids, Wendy, John, Michael ignore him and they don't ask if he's all right since he tripped and fell going over, they run over to the dog instead, why didn't they also ask their dad if he was okay, that scene scared me. Anyways he puts Nana the dog outside, Then George and Mary goes out for the evening.Peter Pan and Tinkerbell breaks into the Darling house to find his shadow. Peter wakes up Wendy, she sews the shadow on Peter, Tinkerbell pulls on Wendy's hair and Peter stops her, John and Michael wakes up. Peter puts the pixie dust so Wendy and the children can all levitate and fly, the 4 of them sneaks out and flies toward another planet to Neverland where nobody grows up yet they're mortal and can get hurt or die.Hook has psychological problems and a disability missing his left hand, which causes him to be a murderer and a kidnapper, unforgiving and seek revenge and hold a grudge against Peter. Peter and the 3 kids arrive at Neverland, they're attacked and they seek safety from the cannonballs. Tinkerbell tricks the lost boys to attacking Wendy and she gets banished by Peter. Peter takes Wendy to the lagoon while John and Micheal leads the lost boys on a hiking trip which they eventually got captured by Indians. The Indian Chief is angry and falsely accuses the lost boys for kidnapping his daughter Tiger Lily.Meanwhile Peter and Wendy meets the mermaids, but Peter makes fun of Wendy getting wet and she gets angry. Then Peter sees Hook and Smee with Tiger Lily who is captured. Then Peter gets into a fight with hook and laughs and bullies Hook who is attacked by the crocodile.Peter is declared the hero and is honored by the Chief and the Indians hold a celebration for saving Tiger Lily, Wendy didn't like the party and goes back to Peters hideout.Then Hook becomes sick then heard rumors Peter banished Tink, he then has his assistant Smee kidnap Tinkerbell where she lead them to Peters hideout. Peter is annoyed and disappointed with the lost boys for wanting to leave Neverland, Wendy, John, Michael and the lost boys gets kidnapped by Hooks pirates. Hook becomes a terrorist by planting a time bomb in Peters hideout.The next morning, Wendy, John, Michael and lost boys have a choice to make, join Hooks crew or walk the plank, Tinkerbell quickly flies over to warn Peter and saves him from getting blown up and survives, Wendy walks the plank and Peter saves her, the lost boys get into a swashbuckling war against the pirates, Peter once again goes on a duel with Hook, he then wins and once again makes fun of Captain Hook who falls in the water and gets attacked by the crocodile and the pirates escape in their lifeboats. Peter makes the ship hover and flies them safely home to their parents.I have a big problem with this movie, first of all I do not like Peter Pan, he's spoiled, arrogant, selfish, a showoff, rude to people, only cares about himself unless tragedy strikes. He's a bully, he mocks disabled people like Hook which made me really mad and almost becomes a murderer himself, yes there have been people in real life that have been attacked or killed by the Crocodile.The controversial scene where Hook gets brutally attacked by the Crocodile scares me every time and I get sensitive to it since I don't find it funny at all, I can't believe Disney is still showing graphic violence in this cartoon I want them to stop showing it.He bullied Wendy at one point for letting the mermaids bully Wendy which I thought was uncalled for. He also shows off at the Indians ceremony. Yes even though he did some good deeds to save Wendy and Tiger Lily and Tinkerbell. He also put the 3 kids in peril and didn't watch over their safety.That isn't enough to make me cheer for Peter. Peter Pan overall shows no mercy to the pirates and is rude and is very bossy and mean to everybody and I think he should've been a labeled a villain not Hook.I also didn't like Tinkerbell because she's annoying like Navi the fairy, she bullied Wendy and almost got her killed and led Hook to Peter's hideout.I actually liked Hook in this movie, yes even though he's labeled a villain, I don't think he was a very bad villain, unlike Snow White's Stepmother who's a murderer and serial killer. I felt very sorry for Hook the entire time and I did wish he did win the fight instead of Peter Pan, I rooted for Hook. Yes he did commit terrorist attacks, shot one of his annoying singing pirates, kidnapping Tiger Lily, planting a time bomb in Peter's hideout. I wish that someone could've taught Hook forgiveness and help him to not seek revenge and be happy and a loving pirate.I also liked Mr. Smee who was cheerful and easygoing and a friendly pirate and tried to help Hook out, he was also my favorite sidekick villain. I liked the part where he accidentally shaved off the seagull's feathers off his bottom exposing the seagulls bare bottom. I think Mr. Smee should've been a hero and not a sidekick villain.I did like the crocodile and felt bad for it when it became attracted and addicted to eating Hook.I felt bad for George their father and also for Nana the dog. who tripped and had an accident in the bedroom, that's a lesson for you kids, never ever leave a wagon in the middle of the room, it's a hazard even in real life.I wish that the Disney storyboard people had spent more time giving Indians more personally and screen time and the reason why they attacked the lost boys and why they feuded with each other, I'm interested in Indian characters. Also the mermaids weren't given enough screen time which I felt letdown.I liked George, Mary, Nana, Wendy, John, Michael, the lost boys, the Indian tribe, and Captain Hook's pirates, and the Crocodile they were very fun and enjoyable.But I hated Peter Pan with a passion and his annoying fairy Tink. If I could change this movie, I would have Wendy help Captain Hook out with his personal problems and get him to change and give up his villainous ways and think happy thoughts and learn how to forgive other people, Hook, Smee and the pirates needed a mother for sure. I would've had both Peter Pan and Tinkerbell get banished from Neverland and grow up for once and never come back, good riddance to Peter Pan the jerk and bully.It's too bad Peter Pan is the real villain star in this cartoon and not Hook. I would've liked him better if Peter wasn't a bully and a showoff. Yes this is also a Disney classic but there's better Peter Pan films to watch, I highly recommend 'Hook' 1991 with the late Robin Williams, or also 'Peter Pan' 2003 an amazing live action movie. Or 'Neverland' 2011, those Peter Pan films are worth your time. Also the SNES game 'Hook' 1992 is also worth your time.This Disney cartoon should've been Rated PG-13 for scary scenes, violence, peril, smoking, alcohol, terrorist attack.
It's risky business revisiting movies you loved as a child. Thankfully here, a few vestiges of magic remain intact.The opening sequence at the Darling home is divine. It's a perfectly economical set up - introducing characters and themes, amidst a ton of physical comedy. The endless slapstick is still charming, though it fails to reach the ingenuity and artfulness of Cinderella (1950). I'd also forgotten Tinkerbell had severe anger issues. Great stuff.However half way through, once the endless novelty of wacky characters and ticking crocodiles was established, I seemed to lose interest. The story just... collapses. The fast pacing fails to create excitement, resulting in episodic scenes that meander towards a swift conclusion. The magic dust certainly rubs off.The animation still has hints of beauty and it ties together with the score nicely. But nothing seem to take wing, to soar. I was hoping I'd rediscover something innovative I'd overlooked as a child - like the genius of the animation and the backgrounds in Sleeping Beauty (1959).But there's still plenty of charm waiting for those brave enough to unlock the child within.6/10.
I would watch this as a kid and I liked it. I still like it today though it's not my favorite Disney movie. While I still like it today there're some scenes that are pretty cringeworthy by today's standards but i'll get to that later. Based on the book and play by J. M. Barrie it begins with the Darling kids going to bed at the urging of their parents. While they're asleep Peter Pan(Bobby Driscoll in his last role with Disney) and Tinker Bell flies in their room looking for his shadow accidentally waking them up in the process. The first to greet them is Wendy Darling(Katheryn Beaumont) who sews his shadow back. As she's doing that he offers to take them to Neverland which they accept. Shortly after arrival they're introduced to The Lost Boys who almost kill Wendy at first after Tinker Bell tricks them into firing cannonballs at them.Meanwhile as they're exploring Neverland and meet the inhabitants, Captain Hook plots his revenge against the titular character for cutting off his hand and feeding it to a man-eating crocodile nicknamed Tick-Tock. Aiding his plans are his bumbling personal assistant Smee. He comes up with a plan to use Wendy as bait in order to lure Pan into his trap. With the help of The Lost Boys, Tinker Bell (who lead Hook to Wendy), Michael and John Darling, Peter travels to face Hook once and for all to save Wendy. The movie looks and still is great. To say the animation has aged well is an understatement. The colors are vivid and smooth, the characters feel alive and have well-defined personalities and the story's simple yet attention grabbing for both kids and adults.Captain Hook's an entertaining villain. He's crazy but he's also funny in how paranoid he is about Tick-Tock returning to eat his other hand and desperate on getting revenge in Peter Pan for previously mentioned reasons. Speaking of Peter Pan even though he's the title character I think he's unlikable. He acts too much like a dick to others such as Wendy when he first meets her. In fact he acts rude to her when she sews his shadow back on and when they make it to Neverland he almost lets her drown by the mermaids they visit at the lagoon who jealously tease her at first. I get that he's supposed to be cocky but even a kid he does some terrible things such as previously mentioned him cutting off Hook's hand and feeding at to the croc just for fun. If that's not enough he lures the kids away from the safety of their parents to a place they have no knowledge of. Another thing that I find cringeworthy are the way the Native Americans are depicted. There's a scene where the Native Ammericans celebrate after Pan saves Tiger Lily from the Pirates and they save for Lily they all have red skin, dress and act stereotypically and begin to sing 'What Makes the Red Man Red'. Those are just nitpicks but I think other people would understand why. Aside from that it's not my favorite Disney movie but I still think it's a good movie. Check it out when you get the chance.
In turn of the century London Wendy entertains her young brothers with tales of Peter Pan; a boy who can fly and fights the pirate Captain Hook in Neverland. This leads to some disturbance and her father tells her she is too old to be in the nursery. That night Peter Pan, and his friend the pixie Tinker Bell, visits; he is saddened to learn that she will no longer be telling stories in the nursery so invites her to come with him to Neverland where children never grow up. Wendy and her brothers return to Neverland with him and so starts an adventure involving Captain Hook, Indians, Mermaids and The Lost Boys.This film may show its age at times, notably the depiction of Native Americans, but for the most part it is utterly charming and a lot of fun. The story provides plenty of enjoyable action that is never too scary for younger children. The characters are a lot of fun; most notably the mischievous Peter Pan and Tinker Bell as well as the villainous, but not too villainous, Captain Hook and his first mate Mister Smee. The animation is of the high quality one would expect from Disney as are the character designs and backgrounds. The songs are fairly forgettable but they weren't big numbers; for the most part just singing while characters got on with what they were doing. Overall I found this classic Disney animation to be really enjoyable and well worth watching.
I understand that this movie teaches children or adults that there are times when you have to grow up, mature and take on different responsibilities. It all makes sense.However, this movie wasn't as good as how pop culture, books, word of mouth had mentioned it in the past.It was a weak movie not gonna bash the animation or voice work because they were great, its just the story from start to finish was uninteresting.Call this a weak classic. I don't think even today's children would be interested in something like 1953 Peter Pan. The colorful animation won't be enough to keep them awake.
The second star to the right!Grab Peter Pan's hand and follow him and Tinkerbell to neverland.Where you can remain a child forever.Fight with captain Hook sit to the same table with Indians,swim to the mermaid's lagoon.1 and a half hour of pure magic.Enjoy!
Peter Pan is just amazing. I love the characters, visual design, animation and soundtrack. The strange thing with Peter Pan is that I knew the characters, plot and everythi g about it, but I never watched the entire film from start to finish. I think it's one of the best disney films. Defiantly in my top 10 Best Disney movies. Another thing that I'm starting to realize is that the Disney films fro Cinderella onwards to Jungle Book seem to simplify the character designs in favour of more fluid and expressive anination. Even the background desgns are more bright and surreal then the golden era backgrounds lime Snow White and Dumbo. I think I love the Cinderella era visual design, as it is more appealing to me. Much more colour. The only criticism I have is that there is some dated stereotypes that may offend some people. But nevertheless, I 100% recommend this film to people of all ages.
Nice movie! It has that animation that is kind of haunting and totally classic. It reminds me of the ride, which is pretty cool! Taking out the indians would be like replacing the guns in E.T. with walkie talkies. It totally changes it. Good or bad it changes it.
'And away we go!'The epitome of living in your imagination and be a kid again and forever. I love the aesthetic of this film. Colorful and British. Got to love it. +Wendy cute style, but quit whining
+ don't read conspiracy theories until you watch it
This is a great classic for all ages. I recommend this film to everyone.
I had first seen this movie in theaters in 1976 when I was five years old. My dad took me to see it when it had been re-released. We got there half way in the middle of the film, but this was back when they would let you stay for the next showing, so technically I saw it one and a half times that day. I liked it so much then, and it stayed with me for a long time. I later owned and read the original book and 'Peter Pan's Flight' became one of my favorite rides at Walt Disney World. I knew the story so well, but when I saw it on the shelves in the most recent Blu-ray release, I realized that I hadn't watched the film in its entirety since I was five. So, I bought it. I was amazed at how much I had forgotten. So many small scenes and nuances like the Lost Boys' home under the tree and the Pirates' life aboard ship. It is still, however, a great film and definitely one of the best animated films to come out of Disney studios. I know there's a lot of controversy over the Indians as being politically incorrect. However, we need to keep in mind the period in which this film was made, the fact that it wasn't made with malicious intent, and that Never Land is supposed to be a land created by children inhabited by characters from a child's viewpoint. Children don't know what's 'Politically Correct' and we should put that behind us as well to enjoy this great film. It then stops being a 'relic of the past' and becomes a timeless film. Hopefully we can all have the same attitude as Mr. Darling does by the end of the film. What attitude is that? Watch and find out.
I don't hate it, I just find certain things unappealing. To get it out of the way. I can't stand Tinker Bell, and I really don't know why a character this cruel and selfish has become a Disney icon!? Heck, she tries to kill off Wendy more than once and is stupid enough to believe Captain Hook! And I really don't like the indian stereotypes in this movie. I hope parents of today will take the talk with their kids about such things in movies and media in general. Besides that we get wonderful animation as usual (the flight scene over London towards Neverland is one of my favourite scenes from any Disney movie) and mostly highly enjoyable characters. Captain Hook and Peter Pan are just hilarious together. The crocodile and Hook make some great slapstick comedy worth a fortune. And a couple of memorable songs like 'You Can Fly' and 'Following The Leader'. The ending should be a reminder to every parent who blame their children for being children. It's a wonderful lesson to learn for the parents.
When Sir James M. Barrie died in 1937, he left the copyright of Peter Pan to the Ormond Street Children's Hospital, who proved rather tough to deal with when Walt Disney approached them in the late 1940s. To placate them, Disney proposed to deal constructively with the three main criticisms leveled against Herbert Brenon's 1924 production: (1) He would use the same actor to voice both Darling and Hook; (2) He would not countenance Brenon's ill-advised change of setting from London to New York; and (3) He would give far more color and attention to the key role of Tinker Bell (rather inadequately played by Virgina Brown Faire in the Brenon version-which fortunately didn't matter a great deal as the role was rather small, in both senses of that word).True to his word, Disney delivered-and delivered magnificently on these three issues: (1) Hans Conried does supremely well by Hook and makes an excellent stab at Darling (even though hampered by the screenplay's tendency to make the character far too blustery and slapstick a figure). (2) It's good to see Big Ben back in the limelight, rather than a somewhat incongruous Old Glory. (3) The highly attractive yet supremely malicious Tinker Bell emerges as one of Disney's most inspired creations. Unfortunately, on other (and even more important issues) Disney has chosen to compromise. It was to be expected that Nana would become a Disney dog -= a Pluto clone-because there was no way you could picture a man dressed up as a dog (and a bitch at that) in a cartoon. Okay, even steven.Peter Pan is no longer a girl playing at being a boy, let alone an extremely sexy young lady who seems blissfully unaware of her provocativeness. That also was inevitable, even though you have now eliminated from the pantomime both the Dame and the Principal Boy. But even taking this into account, Peter Pan himself distills only a tiny fraction of the charisma that Betty Bronson so superlatively lent the character. Bobby Driscoll, who was so brilliant as a youngster and deservedly received a prestigious Hollywood award in 1950, seemed to lose his ability as he grew older. Here his performance is adequate at best, just tolerable at worst. So, two minuses for Disney. As might be expected, Wendy is no longer an adult playing at being a very young teenager. On the other hand, Disney obviously does not see her as a fresh-faced kid either. In fact, her age tends to vary a bit. She looks much older in some scenes than in others. And she's inadequately voiced by Kathryn Beaumont (who did such a good job with Alice). The main problem for me, however, is that Wendy's worried-looking, overly mature face makes her look so unattractive. This focuses my attention on Tinker Bell instead. But Wendy is supposed to be a main character (and a highly sympathetic one at that), so another two minuses for Disney. I found the songs a mixed bunch. In my opinion, the liveliest were 'What Makes the Red Man Red?' and 'Never Smile at a Crocodile.' So, it's even steven on the songs. But speaking of the crocodile, I loved him. He came over with far more spirit and a hundred times more personality here than in the Brenon film. So there's a definite plus to Disney. Many critics didn't take to Mr. Smee, but I enjoyed his antics, so one more plus to Disney.Loathed in Britain, and received with indifference in Australia, this is a Peter Pan aimed squarely at Americans. Although it bears a considerable resemblance to Barrie's pantomime, it is in fact a pantomime no longer but an unsatisfactory compromise between a cartoon and a stage play. True, a fair amount of Barrie remains, but it's mostly superficial stuff. Just about all Barrie's important ideas and the majority of his telling lines are omitted. Disney made a large issue of the fact that he had restored Barrie's plan by casting the same actor as Hook and Darling. But what's the point of restoring the casting if the whole point of this relationship has been lost? AVAILABLE on DVD through Disney. Quality rating: Ten out of ten.
For their fourteenth entry into the Walt Disney Animated Classics series, the kid-friendly studio adapted the hugely popular 1904 play and 1911 novel by J.M. Barrie Peter Pan; or the Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up. Barrie's story was a huge success, and continues to delight children and adults alike even today. There have been many adaptations both on film and television (the first was a 1924 silent movie), but none quite as popular as this 1953 version, which is now considered the definitive imagining of Neverland, Tinker Bell and the titular hero himself. Despite some glaring problems that will no doubt make many modern viewers watching it for the first time rather uncomfortable, Disney's Peter Pan still looks absolutely gorgeous and delivers a pretty fun ride.You already know the story, but I'll regurgitate it anyway. Wendy Darling (Kathryn Beaumont) is on the eve of 'growing up', but enjoys discussing and acting out the adventures of Peter Pan so much with her younger brothers John (Paul Collins) and Michael (Tommy Luske) that she wishes she could stay a child just a little bit longer. That night, as the children's parents head out for the night, they are visited by the flying Peter Pan (Bobby Driscoll), who appears to have lost his shadow, and his fairy friend Tinker Bell. With a sprinkling of fairy dust, the Darlings fly off with Pan back to Neverland where they meet The Lost Boys, a feral group of boys dressed as animals who obey Pan's every command. But anchored just off the coast is evil pirate Captain Hook (Hans Conried), who wants to finally put an end to Pan's hijinks. Along with his confidant Mr. Smee (Bill Thompson), he plans to use Tinker Bell's jealousy of Wendy to manipulate her into luring the gang into a trap.I must admit that I didn't love Peter Pan as I was expecting, but I certainly enjoyed it. Fans who have grow up watching the film hold it in incredibly high regard, and I can understand why, but I feel I would be more on their wavelength had I seen it as a child. This is, after all, a story about staying young forever, and all the selfishness and carelessness that comes with it. Disney's famed Nine Old Men don't disappoint, carefully and magically bringing this world to life with some incredible backdrops. Say what you will about modern-day advancements, but the characters in Peter Pan feel just as alive as any computer-animated film today. Hook is also a highlight, sneering with relish at the bumbling Smee when he isn't curling up like a baby at the sight of the crocodile that took his hand. My main issue is that Pan is rather grating. He is certainly a true reflection of the care-free cockiness of many children, but deep down I was hoping that Hook would at least land a slap of two. And the less said about the portrayal of Native Americans (who sing a song called 'What Made the Red Man Red?') the better.
Ever since its release in 1904, J.M. Barrie's famous play Peter & Wendy has become one of the highest regarded children plays of all time for its emphasis on childhood and imagination. While there have been countless adaptations of this work out there, arguably the most well known is the 1953 animated Disney film, and for very good reason. This is not only a charming and entertaining film in its own right, but it is also a rather heartwarming tale of what lies in a child's imagination.Probably the most iconic song from this film is You Can Fly, as it further emphasizes not only the many things you can dream of, but it also serves as a lovely tune to bring one back to a simpler time when they were children. Of course the other songs are well done too, from the melodious lullaby Second Star to the Right, to the highly upbeat Following the Leader, to the hilariously malicious Elegant Captain Hook. However, along with Your Mother and Mine as a beautiful contrast to reality, the aforementioned iconic song is a beautiful homage to simply embracing the imaginative fantasies that any child can dream of without wanting to grow up. Oh yeah, and even though What Made the Red Man Red is very dated given its subject matter, it's still entertaining nonetheless....if you're anti-PC that is.The characters are also a lot of fun, especially the main protagonists. Peter himself may be immature, but I'm sure anyone can relate as they felt that way when they were children, and his spirited nature does balance the cockiness out enough to make him endearing. Wendy does get pushed around quite a bit, but she does pose as a decent straight one to the wackiness in Neverland and a reminder to the audience that maybe it's best to grow up. Not to mention, the romance between Peter and Wendy is perfect for their respected ages, as it's never overdone (they never even kiss) and they're contrasting views on one another play a big role in their relation.As for Tinkerbell, she's pretty much the feminist of her day; always being snooty and trying to prove her way to others, even if she really does love Peter. With such a spunky personality and an emotionally driven arch, it's little wonder why she remains an iconic mascot for the Disney corporation. The other characters like John and Michael, the Lost Boys and the Pirates may be the least interesting characters in the film, but they definitely have their moments of witty banter here and there. However, probably the best character in the movie is the menacing albeit hysterical Captain Hook. Although he is insanely determined to seek vengeance on Pan over the loss of his hand to a crocodile, he is also hilarious from his childish fear of getting eaten by the crocodile and the banter between him and his first mate Mr. Smee. Seriously, whenever you see Hook, Smee and Tick Tock the Croc together, you will witness some of the greatest slapstick ever put to film, let alone animation. The timing, pacing, expressions and even vocals from Hans Conried are bound to have you ache from laughter.As usual for an animated Disney film, the animation is very well crafted. Along with the lovable and expressive character designs and character animation you'd expect from an animated Disney film, the flying scenes are simply breathtaking (hence another reason You Can Fly is so fondly remembered). The crew behind the lush artwork of Neverland really do deserve immense acclaim for the lush artwork, especially Mary Blair. Neverland really does feel like a highly adventurous place any child would want to go to, even with some dangers like pirates and mermaids. Not to mention, the way the animators were able to experiment with water, pixie dust, smoke and especially explosions are highly creative and magical in their own way.With exciting obstacles, charming characters, breathtaking visuals and timelessly catchy songs, Peter Pan nails the childlike adventure on a silver platter. Even if it's not quite as dark as the original play, it still respects the ideology of growing up from one's childhood fantasy that made it beloved for over 65 years. I'd say that children of all ages can enjoy this; boys can get into the swashbuckling and action whereas girls can get into the fairies, romance and even flying. Heck, even adults can have fun with this due to how entertainingly fun and even emotional at times it is, as it may bring them back to memories of when they were younger...by age 12 that is.
As with my past few reviews, I got to view this movie thanks to my Disneyphilic aunt, who likes this movie so much that she has both the 1990 and 1997 VHS releases. Since the 1990 release first caught my eye, we decided to view it since we had almost too much leisure time today. My thoughts are?The story brings with it quite an enjoyable amount of wit and some surprisingly effective slapstick (especially by today's standards), though I was indeed disappointed at how they took some liberties from the play regarding the fictional Piccaninny tribe. I wasn't particularly shocked at the stereotypes, but it didn't contribute much to the humor or anything of quality. When it comes to the characters, I did appreciate how they made Tinker Bell helpful but with just the right amount of sass to make her stand out more from previous Disney heroines. I also identified a lot with Wendy's perspective on several things, such as Pan's behavior. Pan himself is rather fun, though he as well as the Jolly Roger's crew did make this one of the sillier Disney movies. I could appreciate that; the humor as I mentioned does mostly work. What the animation doesn't convey in settings and effects compared to prior Disney movies, it does convey in the character movement to enrich the slapstick. I didn't particularly care for the music, because it's really forgettable and doesn't deserve to be the first thing people remember about this movie.This is yet another Disney winner that I'm certain will be enjoyed by most families. Others might object to the portrayal of the Piccaninny tribe as stereotypical Natives or be repulsed by the surprisingly colorful description of how Captain Hook got his name. Even then, I would say this is worth it for some laughs over 76 minutes.
Disney had returned to the feature film arena in the late 1940's. Many of the features that he produced in the 1950's were intended to be produced in the early 40's, but economic and labor setbacks as well as WWII put those projects on hold. It it interesting to see how Peter Pan would have looked had it been released in 1941 or 1942. Disney's Peter Pan doesn't glamorize childhood, but rather shows the dark side of the ultimate child's fantasy. Wendy doesn't want to grow up, but after numerous bad experiences with virtually every local at Neverland, she sees the light and desires to move on with her life. (A similar theme of a girl fantasying about another world despite her superior's objections, only for her to come to mature after experiencing turmoil was previously explored in Alice In Wonderland). The depiction of Native Americans and use of ethnic slurs has been controversial in recent years, but Disney hasn't pulled this out of circulation, nor has there been any significant pressure to do so. I sensed that they intended these to be fun characters. This is probably one of the most colorful and lush of Disney's post-war films. Mary Blair made excellent color designs for the Darling's nursery and the many Neverland spots. One could only imagine what the picture would have looked like had it been produced a decade earlier when they went all out on lush pictures. Despite some blatant Native American stereotypes, this has remained a beloved classic well into the 21st century.
Well, even a lesser Disney movie like 'Peter Pan' will still be a first-rate animated movie as far as, you know, animation goes. If the 1953 movie didn't break any particular ground, it was still good enough to provide one of the most iconic and instantly recognizable characters: Tinkerbell. Remember, it was Tink who provided the finale of 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit' by magically turning the screen to black after Porky Pig stuttered out his 'That's all, folks!' catchphrase.Tink belongs to the Pantheon of iconic Disney characters and it is appropriate that in one scene she's used as a saltshaker to supply fairy dust to Wendy and her bewildered brothers, she gives the film a certain flavor and even a little sassy touch in what would have been predictable and conventional entertainment, despite the cocky personality of Peter Pan and his interesting rivalry with Captain Hook. It is a fascinating bit of irony that the sidekick of the embodiment of childhood spirit is jealous and worried about the length of her hips.The film has indeed enough innuendo to content the amateurs of psychological and sexual readings in Disney characters but if you want to judge the book by the cover, the film has all it takes to make a passable Disney film, it has that blissful energy and quick readiness for adventures that characterize children and a little touch of fairy dust that became the trademark of Disney films. And Peter Pan isn't a one-dimensional hero, he's a larger-than-life boy who's a both an immature kid and an alpha-male with a harem of mermaids and every female character having the hots for him, he also happens to be a bad-ass fighter.But it takes too long for the film to take off, the opening in the house drags for more than twenty minutes and the annoying father occupies so much screen time that any viewer would need more than a little vacation day on 'Never Land' to forget about him. At the end, there's just something that leaves you hanging on, you know you're supposed to have a little glee in the eye somewhere in the film, but all the masterful animation, the wonderfully staged fights and crocodile sequences, the animation of Pan who spends most of the time not just flying but floating and the interactions between Hook and Smee fail to connect with the story.And there are too many Lost boys so that you don't really care for them, Michael and John are only sidekicks but they don't do much in the film. It's all in Pan, Tinkerbell and Hook with Wendy as a passive and rather dull observer. It doesn't capture the essence of JM Barrie's novel but it does fill all the requirements of a Disney movie, and nothing else. When you finished it, you're just spent a nice moment but then there's nothing that really stands out, what are you going to talk about after watching the film? What did the kids learn from their adventure, that they need a mother and Wendy can't play the surrogate mother anymore because she's got to think of her own future as a mother? The ending was bittersweet with the emphasis on bitter.Maybe I'm biased because I didn't get to see the film when I was a kid, I saw many movies of the same Disney period but only excerpts from 'Peter Pan'. However, I grew up watching the episodes of the anime based on JM Barrie's novels and they were more faithful to his spirit, the kids were all fully developed characters and the relationship between Pan and Wendy was really captivating on a love-and-hate level, but it's like the animators tried to condense the whole story in one-night event like a dream so the whole thing seemed a bit rushed. There's not the warmth of 'Lady and the Tramp', the fast-paced rhythm of 'Alice in Wonderland' or the swingy catchy vibes of the 'Jungle Book' time, and there's no romance, no friendship whatsoever.I guess there's something to blame on the context, by the time 'Peter Pan' was released, 'Cinderella' had - three years before- consolidated the financial strength of Disney studios allowing Uncle Walt to keep on expanding his business, the studio would face a few highs and lows but never with the same stakes as those in 1950. So we're in the middle of the 50's, at the peak of Disney's career, when the animation was lead by the 'Nine Old Men', they were there from 1937 to 1977, if you do the math, the 50's was right in the middle, and it was still before the Xerox device, used for '101 Dalmatians', would simplify animation but with a greater focus on the story, the music, the characters, elements that seems to lack in 'Pan'.'Peter Pan' is a true product of its era, a classic Walt Disney movie that has been made with confidence and dreams, and how appropriate that it tackles a story of a young boy who doesn't want to grow up. It is like the essence of Disney to make dreams possible, and in the case of 'Peter Pan', there was a lot to say about this, but it never quite clicks. Maybe because it was met at a time where the master was too focused on his Disneyland project, on his work on TV and that animated features became a sort of a milk cow.I remarked a strange pattern, it's only where the future of the studios are at stakes that Disney make terrific movies, they're never as good as when they're pivotal and necessary, I can see why 'Peter Pan', while a good film in its own right, isn't as good or memorable as the other features.
This classic contains adventures , imagination , astounding as well as gorgeous sets and brilliant images . The picture mingles action , feats , humor , tongue-in-cheek , fantasy and a lot of entertainment . The film centers about Peter Pan (voice by Bobby Driscoll) , a nice adolescent who doesn't want grow up , Wendy , and brothers , all of them form a motley group going to Neverland , the wonderful and enchanted island . As they are whisked away to the magical world of Neverland on a magical flight . Peter Pan , Tink and Lost Boys , a gang of rag-tag runaways (they were boys who fell out of their prams while the nurses weren't looking , whereas Peter Pan is a permanent resident of Never Neverland, the lost boys are only temporary lodgers , if they seem to grow up, Peter Pan sends them home) will take on captain Hook , Smee and pirates henchmen . Meanwhile , Pan fights enemies and attempts to save his friends from scheming Captain Hook , Smee and his hoodlums .The film contains emotion , humor , fantasy , a lot of fun and songs from Sammys Cahn and Fain . Here Peter and friends undertake several adventures in Neverland ; as Pan with the help of her and the Lost Boys battling Captain Hook and Smee . All ingredients are well presented and and correct and directors Clyde Geronimi , Wilfred Jackson , Hamilton Luske inject much excitement into the many boisterous action scenes . From the beginning to the end the amusement and entertainment is interminable . An entertaining movie that turns out to be colorful and delightful , though a little tiring when the characters are singing , but is still shines . The highlights film are the marvelous images when Peter Pan and Jane are flying throughout Neverland , as they fly over clouds , Tipis , Indian tribes and skull monument . Due to controversy over their appearance in this original movie , as Disney attracted negative comments for their stereotypical depiction of Indians, as indeed did J.M. Barrie with his original play . Marvelous and hilarious scenes carried out by the Disney animators , including extreme comic possibilities when happen 'Hook vs. the Crocodile' , adding the unforgettable ' Tick Tock!' sound heard from the crocodile. Although original author J.M. Barrie is credited , this film was the only major version of 'Peter Pan' to use little of his original dialogue . A great cast of actors to be used to shoot this classy including Hans Conried (Hook) , Bobby Driscoll (Peter Pan) , Bill Thompson (Mr. Smee) , Heather Angel (Mrs. Darling) , among others . Disney went on to exasperate purist fans (similarly to cartoon rendition ¨Alice in Wonderland¨) using American boy star Bobby Driscoll's voice for Pan and modelling Tinkerbell on Marilyn Monroe . Many Peter Pan purists were very upset by the characterization of Tinker Bell as a petulant and voluptuous young woman as old film ¨Peter Pan¨ as its sequel titled ¨Return to Never Land¨ . The fable will appeal to adventure and classic tale fan . Rating : 8/10 above average . It's a terrific familiar amusement that will appeal to vintage tale fans .Other films and stage productions dealing with this classic personage are the followings : The original Broadway production of 'Peter Pan', or 'The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up' by J.M. Barrie opened at the Empire Theater on November 6, 1905 , it ran for 223 performances, closed on May 20, 1906, and starred nineteenth-century stage actress Maude Adams, who never made any films ; silent film ¨Peter Pan¨ (1924) starred by Virginia Brown Faire as Tinker Bell , it uses much of Barrie's original dialogue ; Peter Pan (1953) with voice by Bobby Driscoll, Kathryn Beaumont, Hans Conried ; ¨Hook¨(2001) with Steven Spielberg with Dustin Hoffman as Captain Hook , Robin Williams , Freddie Highmore , Julia Roberts , Bob Hoskins as Smee , Maggie Smith and Caroline Goodall ; ¨Finding Neverland¨ (2004) by Marc Foster with Johnny Depp as James M Barry , Kate Winslet , Kelly McDonald as Peter Pan , Julie Christie , Radha Mitchell , and recent version ¨Peter Pan¨ by JP Hogan with Jeremy Sumpter , Raquel Wood and Jason Isaac . And the official sequel to classic history with an enjoyable Peter Pan , ¨Return to Never Land¨(2002) by Robin Budd and Donovan Cook , though it was originally planned as a direct-to-video release in which the protagonist of the story results to be Wendy's daughter and is set in London during World War II , she is abducted by Captain Hook and Peter Pan must come to the rescue in order to challenge his old enemy once again .
I will start by saying, the times set up the culture for bad screen treatment of Native Americans. Ever see a John Wayne movie? If we can set aside the obvious negativity about this and look at a sparkling film with really good music. It is the J. M. Barrie film with a bit of poetic license. We have delightfully drawn characters who can fly and a group of lost boys. And, of course, a great Captain Hook and my favorite, Smee. If there is a slight criticism, it would be that Peter is a bit too confident. There's little vulnerability. One of the features of the book and the stage play is a vulnerability and a longing that doesn't quite translate.
Haven't you ever wanted to get away from the world around you and go to a far away land with the excitement of a child and the enthusiasm of going on an adventure? I certainly have, which is why I love the classic animation Peter Pan. What I like most about this movie is the fact that it's not only a children's movie, but a great movie for adults too. Watching this movie makes you wish that you were a kid again. It displays our innocence as a child, which we lose as we grow up. That is why the film is so refreshing to watch. The music is another part I really enjoy. It makes the movie more interesting to watch and it fits perfectly with plot of the story. The writers also did a marvelous job at developing characterization through most of the characters. As a whole, the film is easily understood, it is well put together, the characters are unique and fun, and just the story itself is wonderful and creative. As you can see, I do recommend this movie for all children and adults because it's very entertaining, but most of all it re-kindles the child innocence within the ones who've lost it and it adds to those who still have it.
Peter Pan is a boy who would not grow up and went to a magical land, Neverland. But everything changes when Wendy and her brothers are taken there by his hand. Directed by Clyde Geronimi, Wilfred Jackson and Hamilton Luske, has a screenplay by Ted Sears and his team and a competent voice actors team. The production was in charge of Walt Disney himself.This is one of the most interesting films that Disney released in the life of its founder and master. We cannot say that is the best, but it certainly is very interesting anyway. The drawings were made with bright colors but without excessive glare. The characters are good, steering with the majority of children's stories and the imagination of most children of that time, with the Indians, pirates, fairies and the desire to fly. The plot is good, has excellent situational jokes and the figure of the main villain, Captain Hook, is key to many of these comic moments. Tinker Bell is a very ambivalent character, because it seems to be half in love with Peter Pan, a kind of Platonic love. The musical moments are interesting, though more discreet and less memorable than what we see at other Disney films of the same era.Although there are many criticisms of the way this film portrays the Indians, I do not think the film deserves these same criticisms. I think I've seen much more racist and prejudiced characterizations in many western movies and never saw anyone upset about it. This film is for children and, therefore, all are portrayed (pirates, Indians or even the English) in a way that appeals to children, the target audience of the film itself, regardless of how they are. Does anyone think that the pirates were really like Hook? Of course not.Enjoy this film for what it is, see this movie with child's eyes.
Peter Pan is directed by Clyde Geronimi, Wilfred Jackson, and Hamilton Luske, and is a post war Disney animated film about a young man named Peter Pan that lives in Neverland, a place in the sky in which no one physically grows up. When Wendy, a teenage girl living in late 19th century Britain, decides she doesn't want to grow up, Peter escorts her and her two younger brothers to Neverland, where an evil pirate named Captain Hook is out to get revenge on Peter Pan.Many older Disney films are considered classics, and Peter Pan is definitely one of them. From the characters, to the top notch animation, Peter Pan is one of the most iconic animated films of all time. Even 60 years later, most everyone has seen Peter Pan, from people who grew up with it when it came out, to children who are growing up with it today. Rewatching Peter Pan, however, I found a few problems with it that stand out along with all of the great aspects of the film.To start, the animation in Peter Pan is absolutely timeless. Every hand drawn fame of the characters or environment looks amazing, and engulfs the viewer into the bright, whimsical place that is Neverland. All of the characters are also excellently animated, especially when in action. The two characters that stand out the most are that of Peter Pan and his rival, Captain Hook. This particular aspect demands that, in each scene, the viewers' eye is drawn to either of the two enemies, which was a very smart move on the filmmakers' part.On the subject of characters, all of the voice acting is very good, with great performances being given by, specifically, that of Bobby Driscoll (as Peter) and Hans Conried (as both Hook and Mr. Darling). These two play off of each other brilliantly, washing away all suspicion of two men recording in a studio. The other actors also do very well, and aren't necessarily outshadowed by that of Driscoll or Conried.One big issue I did find with Peter Pan was the pacing. It may be confusing to read, but the pacing in Peter Pan is so good that it makes a 77 minute film feel like 45 minutes. Each and every scene is so necessary that the film flies by very quickly. One blink could cause major confusion with how a character got from point A to point B, or where the characters even are. It may be hard to comprehend, but, once seeing the film, this problem is understandable.Another issue I found with the film is the writing for Peter Pan himself. Peter Pan, as written in the original play, is a fun loving child that never grows up. He is supposed to be free- spirited, and a caring person. However, the script for this film seems to portray Peter as a cocky, selfish jerk. He feels as if he's above the Darling children, and, at points in the film, is pretty close to being hated by the audience. He begins to get a bit annoying, and has the viewer rooting for Wendy and her brothers, therefore indirectly rooting for Peter, rather than having us root for Peter himself.Overall, Peter Pan isn't as fantastic as I had remembered it to be. Is it a good, timeless film? Yes, it is, but it has a few more problems that I see more clearly now than I used to. Anyone who isn't too hard on films will enjoy Peter Pan, and others will, too, because it is a pretty good movie.
Walt Disney's Peter Pan has become a beloved classic, cherished by generations of audience members of all ages. And its no wonder why. Most everyone can relate to the enchantment of wanting to stay young forever, all the while going on an adventure in a far off land. It's a simple story that's been told time and time again, on both stage and screen, but Walt Disney's version of Peter Pan is probably the most recognizable. The design of the film is not quite as remarkable as some of the company's other productions, coming right off the design of Alice in Wonderland, but its still beautiful none-the-less. The animation itself is the most spectacular aspect of the movie as the movie is very character driven. As the story runs that fine line that crosses from close and emotional moments to pure slapstick comedy, the animation reflects it all, developing some of the strongest personalities to come from Disney.The characters, as well known as they are outside of this film, are very quintessential Disney here. The Darling children are grounded as the real audience experiencing magic for the first time. We see through their eyes and experience the wonder with them as they visit Neverland. While Wendy says she doesn't want to grow up, and is mesmerized by the wonderful things she sees around her, she also naturally takes on the role of the mother, fleshing her out into a character who also understands responsibility and seriousness where no one else does.Peter Pan somehow manages to be both a brat and charming at the same time. He is the timeless boy, literally, that everyone wants to hold onto. All the girls are simply head over heels for him and all the boys aspire to be like him. He is the definitive boy hero. Captain Hook is surprisingly a mostly silly villain, even becoming the butt of many jokes, but this still doesn't diminish his dangerousness. You never forget for a moment that he is ready to take down Peter Pan. His best moments are as a speaker, such as his moment playing the piano with his hook while talking with Tinker Bell. Here, you see scheming and the true great threat right in his eyes. It's also a nice nod that the voice-actor who plays Hook continues the tradition of playing the Darling father as well.Tinker Bell has some of the best moments in the movie, especially for a sidekick. Scenes like her noticing the size of her hips while standing on a mirror or literally turning red in anger add so much to her character. And the fact that she doesn't speak, only giving sounds of a bell as per the original story, makes her moments of pantomime that much greater. It's no wonder she would go on to have an illustrious career as a character on her own outside of the film, but unfortunately she has never again had the charm that she has here.Other sidekick characters also leave a mark. Mr. Smee is one of the most unforgettable villain henchmen, and Tick-Tock the crocodile offers the biggest action scenes in the film, chasing off Hook. Unfortunately, the portrayal of the Indians is very stereotypical of the times, a misstep that surprisingly hasn't been edited out like some of Disney's other objectionable film moments. But even they have lovingly memorable scenes.Disney yet again captures all of this youthful innocence with vibrant animation, catchy songs and characters that seem to lead a life all their own. It's not about wondering what's going to happen at the end of the film, but about how these characters are going to lead you there through this familiar story. Peter Pan truly is ageless and will no doubt continue to be enjoyed by audiences for years to come.
Sweet, fun Disney classic.Based on James Barrie's famous book, the story of Peter Pan, the boy who never grew up. We see his battles with Captain Hook, Smee and company, accompanied by Wendy, John and Michael and, of course, Tinker Bell...Wonderful adaptation of the novel. Fast-paced, funny and with a great vibrance and message. Animation is excellent and still looks fantastic, over 60 years later. There's not much music, but the tunes there are are very catchy. Good voice casting too.An animated classic, suitable for all ages.
Peter Pan has pretty much everything you could want from a Disney fantasy. There's adventure, romance, swordplay and comedy all mixed together to create a film that effectively captures your imagination. Based on the play and novel by J. M. Barrie, Disney plays the film more as a wide-eyed adventure with the darker and more psychological elements played down. Peter Pan is the boy that never grew up who whisks Wendy and her brothers off to Neverland for the journey of a lifetime. Numerous events take place including meeting mermaids, Indians and of course battling Peter's arch- nemesis Captain Hook. The films narrative is quite straight-forward, the children explore various regions of Neverland and Captain Hook repeatedly tries to get defeat Peter.The characters are the true focus of the film and they are a mixed bag. Peter himself is very assured, confident and a resourceful leader, while his relationship with Wendy does feel genuine. The problem I have with him is that he is somewhat unlikeable. In the original Barrie novel he was egotistical and unpleasant so Disney were accurate, but it means that he isn't an engaging lead because he appears so unsympathetic at times. Tinkerbell suffers exactly the same issue. Her jealousy is understandable and her reactions can be funny, but going as far as trying have Wendy killed is simply too much and it is difficult to get you to care for a character who would go to such vicious extremes. Wendy is nice enough but she's just kind of bland. Kathryn Beaumont gives her a lot of energy, but she doesn't do or say anything of note and is just a dull character in general. The same goes for John and Michael. John is enjoyably geeky and Michael is a cute innocent, but they don't have much character beyond that and they end up feeling like more a side note than the main characters. The Lost Boys are simply forgettable. Giving them their own animal skins is a nice touch, but if it wasn't for that it would be hard to identify them. It is difficult to give so many characters identities, but it's difficult to care about them if they're so bland. The sequences with the Indians are now notorious for the borderline racist portrayal, it never bothered me but I can see how it might offend. Where it does succeed is with its villains. Both Captain Hook and Mr. Smee are brilliant. Hook is the perfect balance of threatening and hilarious, blending both seamlessly at certain times. There's a real intensity and menace to him when he plots against Peter, he shows his cunning in tricking Tinkerbell and we even see him shoot one of his own men for singing at one point. Yet he is just as quick to turn into a quivering mess once the crocodile shows up, cowering at every opportunity and verging on a breakdown. Smee is extremely enjoyable and Bill Thompson does a wonderful job voice wise, he's just too gentle and bumbling to be a pirate. His dialogue and reactions are always funny, while its comedy gold when the two of them are together.The animation for the most part is excellent. It always amazes me at how flowing it is as the characters are always on the go or there always seems to be something taking place, yet everything moves very smoothly and the animation is more restrained whilst retaining the brighter elements of earlier work. Neverland does look like a magical place and I do enjoy the sense of location you get with it. The comedic pieces are fantastic. As said whenever Hook and Smee are together it's funny, but the scenes with the crocodile and Hook are some of the best animated slapstick I've ever seen, everything from how quick the movements are to the sound effects are hysterical. The music is also excellent. The score by Oliver Wallace features a number of effective melodies, whilst songs like 'You Can Fly!' and 'Following the Leader' are very memorable.So on the whole I'd say Peter Pan is something of another flawed masterpiece from Disney. Its only real weakness is its main characters and it's a shame that its sole issue happens to be an important one, Peter is difficult to root for and the Darlings are just a little too dull. With that said I think it excels in every other area. The story is laid-out well, Hook and Smee are great fun, the animation is excellent, it can be very funny at times and the songs stay with you. These stronger elements definitely outweigh the issues with the main characters. It's not Disney's strongest, but it is memorable and can be easily be enjoyed upon repeated viewings.
My parents took me to see Walt Disney's 'Peter Pan' in 1953 when I was 5-years old. I was completely hooked. I was imprinted with this movie the way future generations would be imprinted with 'Star Wars'. For months after, my anxious parents wished they had opted for deep-pile carpet rather than highly-polished floorboards as I leapt from every piece of furniture in the house aided by imaginary pixie dust.Disney's take on the story of the boy who never grew up and his adventures with the Darling children in Neverland may have been even more influential, because I ended up earning my living as an artist for the last 50 years.It wasn't until 25 years later that I saw the film again and I must admit I was apprehensive. Would I be disappointed and see flaws that were not apparent to an overawed child? Well, that didn't happen. Instead, I was overawed all over again with the mastery of the whole thing.But of course, the film was more that just stunning visuals; there was also the story that was adapted from J. M. Barrie's famous book. And the film has copped plenty of flack over the years - racism and sexism being a couple of the heavier charges laid against it.The depiction of the Native Americans probably wouldn't get off the drawing board these days, but back in the 50's just about every race and creed had their own cinematic stereotypes, which were repeated in movie after movie. To be totally fair, Disney was actually following the lead of Barrie himself who refers to the Indians as 'Redskins' throughout his story and deals with them in the broadest of stereotypes with a surprising amount of violence thrown in.As for being sexist, possibly Tinkerbell has come in for the most attention with her voluptuous figure and occasional hip wiggling - she is referred to as Twerkerbell in one critique of the film. But again, rather than just the Disney artists over-vamping an innocent fairy, here is J. M. Barrie's description of Tink: 'exquisitely gowned in a skeleton leaf, cut low and square, through which her figure could be seen to the best advantage. She was slightly inclined to embonpoint'. That archaic word means a plump, hourglass figure. I rest my case.To see how good this film is, you only need to compare it with the sequel, 'Return to Neverland' made in 2002. With bigger eyes and individual shading, the characters seem more cartoony, lacking much of the warmth and style of the earlier version.There have been plenty of stage and film versions of the story over the decades, but my favourite is still Walt Disney's 1953 film; even after 62 years, it has lost none of its magic for me.
For me Peter Pan is one of the lesser movies of the so-called post-war restoration era of Disney. It's not the triumphant return of Cinderella, nor the bizarre fun of Alice in Wonderland, nor does it have the warmhearted atmosphere of Lady and the Tramp nor the technical quality of Sleeping Beauty. It's still a marvelous adventure film and heads and shoulders above most of its animated peers. It just means that by Disney standards it's not near the top.A few reason for this. First of all, I don't think that Captain Hook is a very good villain. He has the visual appeal and a great voice actor in Hans Conried who, following the proper Peter Pan tradition, also voiced Mr. Darling. But I think he's way too slapsticky, which takes away all the menace most other version of the character have. Then again, the crocodile is awesome.The songs are also of poorer quality than in many other Disney films. You Can Fly is of course a classic, but other than that I cannot remember any other song. Except of course What Made the Red Man Red, which is problematic for other reasons.Plus Wendy is something of a step back from Alice, the previous Disney heroine, who was also voiced by Kathryn Beaumont, by the way. And I have absolutely nothing against Beaumont, she's amazing, but the character herself is a lot less activate and personal than Alice.But, it stills has that Disney charm. The animation is unsurpassed, Tinker Bell is one of Disney's finest characters for a reason, the actual plot is a lot of fun and as a whole it's over an hour's worth of fun, excitement and good family entertainment. It's not one of the strongest Disney films in my opinion, but is definitely worth a watch no matter your age.
A childhood classic that is still enjoyable today . My 29 year older brother still believes he is one of the lost boys . With all of the fairy lure , the pirates , the sense that you are being taken back to a time in your childhood , where there were no worries and you still had a sense of wonder , that is what I want out of a childhood movie and that is what you get with this one . You return to your childhood where you can be anything and everything , and sometimes its good to just reset , Find your inner-child and let them out , come back with a better understanding of life and a tad more sense of who you are and who you were.
It's the classic J. M. Barrie story. George Darling declares that it's Wendy's last night in the nursery and ties Nanna in the backyard. While the Darling parents are out, Peter Pan chases his shadow to the nursery. John, Michael and Wendy join him to fly to Neverland using pixie dust from Tinker Bell. Captain Hook leads the pirates who vows to get revenge on Peter Pan for the lost of his hand. The crocodile that ate his hand has developed a taste for Hook. Lucky for him, he's ticking after swallowing a clock. A jealous Tinker Bell convinces the Lost Boys to shoot down Wendy bird. Hook and Mr. Smee have kidnapped Indian princess Tiger Lily to find Peter Pan's hiding place.It's a fun Disney classic. Captain Hook and Mr. Smee provide the big broad comedy. The fun is that the cartoon doesn't hold back. The crocodile has sharp teeth. It's inappropriate at times especially with the portrayal of the native tribe and the song 'What Made the Red Man Red?' Tinker Bell almost steals the show. The animation is beautiful. It's one of Disney's golden age movies.
The 1940's were tough years for the Walt Disney Company. Due to World War II, films like Pinocchio, Fantasia and Bambi did a poor job at the box office because the European market was cut off. The package films that were released during the second half of the 1940's were enjoyable, but they weren't profitable enough to keep the company strong. Hence the reason Disney decided to release Cinderella in 1950. If Cinderella would've flopped, there's no telling if Disney would even exist today. Luckily, Cinderella was a major success and allowed Disney to release other full length features. In 1953, the Walt Disney Company released Peter Pan. Much like Cinderella, Peter Pan was well received at the box office and even turned out to be the highest grossing film of 1953. The film also received praise from critics. So is Peter Pan really that great? The film is based on the 1904 play that was written by J.M. Barrie. Peter Pan (voiced by Bobby Driscoll) is a boy who never grows up. Wendy (voiced by Kathryn Beaumont) tells stories about Peter to her younger brothers, John and Michael. Her father, George (voiced by Hans Conried) does not approve of the tales and tells Wendy it's about time she grows up, so she has to leave the nursery room in which Wendy and her brothers sleep. They meet Peter Pan and Tinkerbell in the room and fly off to Neverland. Being jealous of Wendy, Tinkerbell tells the lost boys to shoot Wendy while she's flying. Peter manages to save Wendy and bans Tinkerbell. While visiting the mermaids, Wendy and Peter see how Captain Hook (also voiced by Hans Conried) and Mr. Smee (voiced by Bill Thompson) kidnap Tiger Lilly, the daughter of the Indian Chief. Peter distracts Hook and the crocodile appears, so Hook and Smee flee. Captain Hook looks for another way to find out about Peter's hiding place. He kidnaps Tinkerbell. Because she's jealous of Wendy, she actually reveals Peter's whereabouts, but wants Hook to promise he won't lay a finger on Peter. Hook does so, but Tinkerbell doesn't trust him and wants to warn Peter, but Hook locks her up. Meanwhile, Wendy has become jealous of Tiger Lilly, because she kisses Peter. That's the reason she tells her brothers they'll go home. The Lost Boys become interested and want to go with them, except for Peter. Wendy, her brothers and the Lost Boys are captured by pirates, while Hook places a bomb in Peter's hideout. Tinkerbell finds out about the Hook's plan and breaks free in order to save Peter. She manages to save him and Peter fights Captain Hook on Hook's ship. The crocodile appears again and chases Hook off. Wendy and her brothers return to their room and it becomes apparent that it was Wendy's dream. She tells her father she's ready to grow up, but now her father believes it's too soon for her to grow up.Peter Pan is an enjoyable Disney classic with some great animation, but it isn't anything groundbreaking. Peter's character isn't very interesting. He just comes across as an average boy and the voice work from Bobby Driscoll isn't very good either. That being sad, his character isn't bad or anything, it's just bland. Tinkerbell is an interesting character as she's extremely jealous of Wendy and even attempts to hurt her. She's led by emotions when she reveals Peter's whereabouts to Captain Hook, because she's blindsided by jealousy. She understands she's done something wrong and wants to save Peter and in doing so, she manages to redeem herself. The most interesting part of Peter Pan is easily Captain Hook. He's not as evil and maniacal as some of Disney's villains, but he's very entertaining, especially during his scenes with the crocodile, which are all fantastic. The Captain Hook character alone makes this film worth the view. But there are a lot of other things that work really well. The songs are nice, the animation looks beautiful and there are a lot of interesting side characters, like the Indians, the mermaids and the pirates. Overall, Peter Pan is an entertaining Disney classic.
This is a adventurous childhood movie that deals with delving into the inner child of everyone in my opinion. How a girl can relive one last adventure as a child before entering the real world. And the this film takes place in a place called Neverland, where you can be a child and be youthful forever. This is a magical animated film that delves into the imagination of a child's heart. I didn't really like the character Peter Pan in this as much as I thought I did when I was a kid. Although a lot of the things that happen in this movie is a fantasy when it comes to dealing with the real world. However I believe integrity is one of the most important aspect of a man and I did like how it portrayed that through Peter Pan. Overall, this is a magical adventure that is worth a watch. Especially if you are a kid at heart.8.4/10
Peter Pan is one of the classic Disney movies. It has a magical feeling about it. Peter Pan's flight is one of my favourite rides at Walt Disney World because of this movie. There are some racist parts in the movie,I think it provides a great opportunity to talk to your kids about it and how the world has changed since the time this movie was made.Peter Pan is really a wonderful movie showing while you do have to grow up you don't have to stop having an imagination or sense of wonder. You can retain the fun. Wendy is a great big sister and shows that by looking after her brothers. The parents do leave the kids alone but Wendy is supposed be around 13 so I don't think it's that big of a deal especially at the time the movie takes place in.
A nice family movie classic! Watching Peter Pan make me feel young again.I always wanted to fly off to Neverland with Peter... the movie makes it out be a charming and magical world to live in. The lost boys could be a bit of trouble though - they are mischievous little devils but a joy to watch. The best parts of the film are when Captain Hook shows up - always so funny! Watching Hook and the alligator is most memorable and hilarious scene - I could watch that part over and over.This is a great film to watch with your kids. 9/10
Walt Disney's animated version of the J.M. Barrie children's story about Peter Pan, a boy who never grew up(and who has the power to fly) who takes Wendy Darling and her two brothers to his home in Never land, where Peter leads other 'lost boys' who never grew up, and who must periodically do battle with the evil Captain Hook and his pirates, who themselves are after the elusive reptile who took Hook's hand many earlier. Will Wendy and her brothers survive this adventure, and make it back home? Not one of Walt Disney's better animated films, mostly because the story lacks warmth and appeal, and Peter does seem like a coldly aloof cipher. The supporting characters make up for it a bit.
This is another magical Disney movie about the boy, Peter Pan, who didn't grow up and learned to fly. He visits the Darling family and takes three kids away on a journey to the enchanting and luscious Neverland, where endless adventures and mysteries await them. The kids get caught in a tug-a-war between Peter Pan and his tag team of whimsical and colorful characters against the notorious Captain Hook and his band of pirates.This Disney classic is full of catchy tunes and has plenty of action - a perfect good guy vs. bad guy story for the kids. This movie also introduces Tinker Bell, the tiny winged fairy and a loyal sidekick to Peter Pan. Tinker Bell would go on to make cameos and guest appearances in Disney cartoons and TV shows, and would occasionally be the character that opens or closes a show with a wave of her wand.Some of the characteristics of the characters were a little unremarkable, particularly in Peter Pan and Tinker Bell - a little cold and irresponsible. But, a pretty good classic for any Disney collection! Grade B
The song 'What makes a Red Man Red?' IS terrible, and makes me SICK with anger! It uses phrases WE do not use ! (HOW?) ( UGH!) and the derogatory term (SQUAW ) which is something you would not want you children to hear if it were in YOUR language! It is rude calling US Injuns, as it is to say 'coloreds' or using the N word! I am 53, and my mom never let me see this movie! NOW I KNOW WHY! I was livid to watch this for my first time on Disney JR with my granddaughter, this YEAR! COME ON Disney get with it! remove this song! And remove racial slurs from ALL Disney 'CLASSICS' ! We are living in a time when this is no longer tolerated!
I really enjoy Disney's older films. From Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937) and up, the mouse house has produced many a film that have boasted in crisp animation, catchy musical numbers and likable characters. And for Peter Pan (1953), that technique does not move astray from its predecessors. It is funny though, while watching it I began to notice a trend about the character of Peter Pan himself.The plot is taken from J.M. Barrie's story, as like many other products. A group of children end up spending the night in the world of Neverland with their friend Peter Pan, spirit of youth and his group of misfit orphans (I guess). Because of that, they are bound to run into Pan's nemesis, Captain Hook and his band of pirates. And like any other Disney film, it'll be difficult to resist the charm of any of the characters in this movie. Oddly enough, the character I found the least likable was Peter Pan himself. Here's why.The boy is arrogant. He doesn't like listening to others opinions, even when it might be to his benefit. He's also inconsiderate. Since he's the oldest male of the group, he also thinks what he says is law and deserves the best treatment. Lastly, Peter Pan is a 'bad boy' character or player. Notice that when he's with another female, the female he was originally with becomes extremely jealous. He also doesn't acknowledge this either leading back to his arrogant personality. He's a playful but very thickheaded character. It actually got disgusting to a point that these girls were falling for him.The only other thing I found weird was that the Island of Neverland was a star located in the sky? I don't get it. But besides this, I found everything else enjoyable. My favorite character was Captain Hook for his funny and over the top performance. This is mostly because of the clicking crocodile that he keeps running into which seems to get funnier every time they're on screen together. The score provided by Disney veteran, Oliver Wallace continues to still make good scores for each film he has worked in. Overall it was a nice film, just couldn't believe how jerkish Peter Pan was.The story of Peter Pan is lively, full of color and contains a lot of charm. Unfortunately, the only character that seems to be lacking in it the most charm is our main character, Peter Pan. But for the most part, it is forgivable....mostly.
I loved 'Peter Pan' so much when I was little that I had a birthday cake of the memorable 'You Can Fly' scene, dressed up as him whilst doing a sponsored walk, pretended that sand was pixie dust to make me fly (although it never worked!) and watched the video constantly. Now, at the grand age of 26, I own the DVD along with its sequel 'Return to Neverland,' which is almost as good. It's hard to believe that the original film is 60 years old now and it has kept its sparkle ever since.There are so many strong points of this film I don't know which one to begin with. First of all the animation is as good as I remember but today I have only just spotted the goof of Wendy's facial features disappearing for a second or two as she flies from Big Ben during 'You Can Fly.' Secondly the majority of songs are melodic and impeccably sung, especially 'You Can Fly,' 'Following the Leader' and 'Your Mother and Mine,' which is beautiful and not quite as tear-jerking as 'Baby of Mine' from 'Dumbo' - that song really made me bawl my eyes out. Thirdly most of the dialogue is memorable and the film is even funny in parts, particularly George hitting his head on the drawer at the beginning and Peter Pan pretending to be an evil spirit and Captain Hook. I also like the voices of Peter and Cubby (The Lost Boy who looks like a bear) in this film better than in the sequel. The pace, however, has varied from being quite slow as a child to being faster than I thought as an adult, but that's not a bad thing. I guess I put it down to not paying attention to the film's running time when I was small.Overall, 'Peter Pan' is a Disney classic worth re-visiting and it is just as enjoyable to watch as an adult as it was when I was a child. 9/10.
A year and a half later, they released Peter Pan in 1953.The story is about a girl named Wendy and her two brothers travel to Neverland with Peter Pan, after Wendy refuses to grow up and sleep in her own room and to be banned from the nursery. Her father does not like her telling Peter Pan stories, and thinks that she is too old for that. When they reach Neverland, they experience an adventure of a lifetime.Most of the characters are a bit irritating. Peter Pan comes off as a selfish, cocky, arrogant douchebag, Tinkerbell is a bitter, ruthless bitch, and Wendy can come across as whiny, bland, and a bit of a brat. The Lost Boys are your typical troublesome orphans, Michael is a smart know-it-all, and John is your typical 3 year old brother. Captain Hook and Smee, are entertaining and hilarious together. This can come off as a problem because you are supposed to root for the good guys, but it is very hard to when they are incompetent and you are irritated by them. You start to root for the bad guys as the film goes on.The songs in this movie are great, catchy, and memorable. The dogs everybody knows are the controversial 'What Makes The Red Man Red', 'Following The Leader', and the movie's theme song 'You Can Fly'. The thing with this soundtrack is that each sic has its own theme and sound. Disney's most well known songs are also in this soundtrack.Even thoughts characters can be a problem, everything else is great. The plot is well- paced and interesting, the characters are not bland (though irritating), and there are fantastic songs. This is perfect for the family. It is gender-neutral, and filled with action and adventure. Just expect to be irritated by some of the characters.
This beloved 1953 animated adaptation of J.M. Barrie's book was the last of Disney's films to be distributed through RKO Pictures. That fact gives it even more historical significance for cinema buffs. It's easily one of my favorite movies from the Mouse House because of its quick pace and borderline dark humor.Peter Pan returns to the nursery of Wendy, Michael, and John Darling after losing his shadow. He visits them frequently in secret to listen to Wendy's tales about himself and his adventures in Neverland. Peter accidentally wakes the children up and agrees to take them to Neverland with him. They soon get tangled up in a battle between with Captain Hook and his pirates. Joining them in their fight are the Lost Boys and the fairy Tinkerbell.'Peter Pan' has something for everyone. There's a girl yearning for adventure, an Indian princess, a beautiful sparkling fairy, and mermaids for the younger female audiences out there. Boys can get excited over pirates, Indians, and mischievous little troublemakers who like to fight with each other. Adults will enjoy it because of its humor and ability to take them back to a more innocent time when they weren't bogged down with so many grown-up responsibilities.It's funny to watch 'Peter Pan' now in the politically correct environment we live in. It's a children's cartoon in which we witness Captain Hook shoot a pirate for singing too loud, Peter make rude comments about girls, a little boy smoke a peace pipe, and listen to Indians sing about 'What Makes the Red Man Red.' Isn't it strange how what's acceptable changes over the years?
Peter Pan is my most favorite Disney film of all time and the best one in my book. This film, being 60 years old has the exciting youthful feel I'm sure it had in the beginning when first premiered in 1953. Walt Disney was a man of imagination and this film proves it for the entertaining, imaginative, and magical moments that go on in it.The film is the following: Excellent, entertaining, imaginative, magical, and inspirational, and I can put them all together.Wonderful story, excellent animation, outstanding voice cast (you couldn't pick anyone better in the day than Bobby Driscoll,there couldn't have been a better Peter Pan for the way he was portrayed: cocky, fun, exciting, imaginative, a fighter, though there he had a soft spot and was there whenever his friends needed him. Kathryn Beaumont, you can't compete for a better Wendy. As far as I'm concerned, Kathryn Beaumont was the best Wendy ever. Here, Wendy knew all about Peter Pan and was an optimistic female for there weren't many I'm sure in that day, also, she knew how to spin a perfect Peter Pan tale. Hans Conried was a magnificent Captain Hook. I really love how they Disney-sized him to be still evil, but not the type where you would actually murder someone and get away with it, so there he's different than the Captain Hook in the novel, and actually better. Bill Thompson was a hilarious Smee, they downsized him to be as sweet as sugar and complete opposite of the captain, which is the stereotype of a sidekick anyway. You couldn't have chosen a better Tinkerbell than Margaret Kerry. I think who deserves the most praise here is Paul Collins, the voice of John Darling, who is hardly recognized. He knew how to put the role to work without making it dull and boring, and John became one of my favorite characters of all time. Moving on, lastly, there is a wonderful score! The Second Star to the Right is a wonderful ballad, even the remakes were good (especially Jonatha Brooke, singer in the second film sang it like the ballad it is, but actually no one can compete with the Jud Conlon Chorus who practically sang all of the films' songs) You Can Fly! You Can Fly! You Can Fly!, whimsical and can put you on the edge of your seat, A Pirates Life, fun. Following the Leader, can have you sing along and make you laugh. What Makes The Red Man Red?- comical song, and can have you laughing your head off. Your Mother and Mine- a nice lullaby. And last but not least The Elegant Captain Hook, entertaining song, having kids enthralled by what goes on it a pirate's life, and being scared to death when threatened to walk the plank.If you own the Disney Classics Video to the Platinum Edition DVD, you will see the color is very beautiful and very experimental in the You Can Fly sequence drawing characters to fly.There are a lot of entertaining parts, especially concerning Peter Pan and the Lost Boys. Peter Pan when taunting Captain Hook the most throughout the film.The movie is both imaginative and magical at the same type because it's so unique. It's nothing like the original book and I'm sure that's what made it the huge hit it was. It's a shame that it didn't win anything, but it's still a 10/10 for me.The movie is also inspirational, because fans of Peter Pan can be free to make up their own stories.Peter Pan- Excellent, 10/10 film! Thank you, Walt Disney for bringing us the best of your masterpieces!
Watching this movie 15 years after probably the last time I saw it, I still found myself laughing every time Peter Pan took on Hook, it was all arranged for laughs by Disney to make a mockery of the dear Captain Hook.My favorite character in the movie was not Peter, Hook, Wendy, Wendy's brothers or The Lost boys; my favorite character was the Crocodile. I can't just get it out of my head how he seems to be so creative in trying to catch Captain Hook, my favorite was when he pushed aside the boat that Hook was trying to jump into and he caught Hook in his mouth.Disney's Peter Pan animation was done in 1953 and it is based on the play Peter Pan, or The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up in 1904 and a novel in 1911 by J. M. Barrie. It is the 14th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series.It features the adventures of Peter Pan a boy who could fly and wouldn't grow up and lives in Neverland with the lost boys. His partner or side kick is Tinker Bell a fairy. The story also features his adventures with Wendy and her brothers, as they learn to fly to Neverland, meet the mermaids, Tiger Lily and the red Indians. They also battle Captain Hook and his crew.Disney out did themselves in this money spinning classic, that raked in more than 20 times its production cost (making over 80 million in the box office), Peter Pan became a source of controversy in its stereotyping of its Characters, especially the Native Indians. If not for the time it was made such a movie will never leave the production board, due to its referring of the Indians as red and comparing them to hunting animals.Peter Pan was the last and final Disney film in which all nine members of Disney's Nine Old Men worked together as directing animators and it was the last movie that was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures before Walt Disney's founding of his own distribution company, Buena Vista Distribution.Peter Pan has remained a classic over the years for children and adults alike and it is one of my best Disney animations. I will like to say it is a nice watch and something to own and keep for later as you will love to see it years after, just to see the two (Peter and Hook) go at it again and if you are like me to see the Croc try to get Hook again.www.lagsreviews.com
What a great classic! Don't we wish we were all kids who could fly and that there were pirate adventures and adventures with the Indians and mermaids and so on? In this movie the kids go on the adventure in 'real life'. In this case their parents were the ones with no faith (until the end) and the kids weren't wanting to 'grow up'.This adventure shows a fairy tale guy named Peter Pan who happened to have the ability to fly and had a friend Tinkerbell who happened to get jealous when a girl named Wendy came into the scene. There's a pirate named Captain Hook who happens to want to do anything to get his way with Peter.It goes through an interesting adventure with mermaids and Indians and jealously and pirates and so on.Very great, rated 8/10.
Disney's Peter Pan is one of those movies I enjoy less and less as I get older. No, it's got nothing to do with me thinking I'm too cool for Disney movies; on the contrary, I'm a proud Disneyphile and my affections for most of my favorite childhood films has grown as I became old enough to appreciate the artistry and complexity hidden in some of them. The same cannot be said for Peter Pan, a film which children are more apt to enjoy than adults.The movie starts in the Darling household as the younger Darling children, John and Michael, are reenacting stories about Peter Pan told to them by their older sister, Wendy. Mr. Darling, constantly disrupted by their antics as he prepares himself for a party, becomes frustrated and tells Wendy she is too old to be staying in the nursery with the boys and says she will have to grow up, which upsets the three children greatly. After their parents leave for the party, the children are visited by Peter Pan himself and the pixie Tinkerbell. When Wendy tells him she has to grow up, Peter insists they all come with him to Neverland, where they can remain young forever. He teaches them to fly and they go off to Neverland, where they have a series of adventures involving mermaids, Indians, and pirates led by Pan's nemesis, Captain Hook.It cannot be denied that the movie has many positive elements. Its best asset is its immense entertainment value. There is a fair amount of swashbuckling and comedy, and the soundtrack is an absolute delight. Upon rewatching the film for the first time in years, I was astonished by how funny all the gags were, especially the scenes featuring the crocodile and Hook. Hook's right-hand man Smee is pretty funny too, most of his goofy business never failed to earn at least a chuckle from me.As fun as Peter Pan is, however, it doesn't hold up as one of the all-time greats because of the majority of its characters. Aside from Hook, Smee, and Tinkerbell, most of the cast is either bland, annoying, or downright unlikable. Despite being the actual main character, Wendy is uninteresting and overshadowed by the rest of the cast. Her brothers are even less interesting. The Lost Boys are annoying and while I'm no anal PC person, the Indian scene makes me cringe.The character I have the biggest issue with is the titular character himself. Peter Pan is an unlikable jerk, considerate of no one but himself, brash, narcissistic, and for the most part lacking empathy. The film paints him as a hero, yet he has few heroic qualities; I'm not saying he's the incarnation of evil or that I don't like flawed characters, but it seems we're supposed to think his way of doing things is right. The film never decides whether growing up or staying young like Peter is the thing to do. At first, it seems that Wendy gets tired of Peter's immaturity and sees the necessity to leave such childish behavior behind, yet later on she's idealizing him again. I guess you could say the scene where Tinkerbell saves Peter's life and he tells her how much she means to him is supposed to redeem him in some way, but the scene seems to have little impact as it's over way too soon. The story's sense of fun causes the theme to be pushed aside, and more attention is given to swordfights and slapstick than to whether or not we're supposed to embrace or reject eternal childhood.Most people don't pay attention to the muddled theme, however. The main draw of Peter Pan will always be its entertainment factor. Even though my affection for the movie has diminished with time, I won't lie by saying I was bored. Sure, Peter Pan is far from masterpiece status, but it's a fun ride nonetheless. 7/10
When I was a kid, my favorite Disney movie was The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh followed by The Lion King but this was my favorite of the movies that featured people. My younger brother and I have fond memories of acting scenes of this movie out with each other. Captain Hook is one of my favorite Disney villains because he's so likable even while doing some pretty horrible stuff.If you haven't seen this movie, you're in for a treat. The visuals are gorgeous and the story is so timeless that it doesn't feel like an almost 60 year old movie at all! You and your kids will all find something to enjoy about it. Peter Pan actually had me laughing out loud in some parts and I'm almost 21 years old! Forget about your grown up burdens and travel to Neverland for an hour and 14 minutes. You'll be glad you did.
I love Walt Disney's Peter Pan. I have loved it since I was a child, and I still watch it to this day. It is a family classic that teaches us not to grow up too quickly and reminds us all of the joys of childhood. However, caution should be exercised when allowing children to watch this movie. Though Peter Pan seems innocent enough at first glance, it contains sexist and patriarchal ideologies which can be damaging to children. In her textbook Critical Theory Today,—which is used in college classrooms across the nation—Lois Tyson writes: 'Patriarchy is thus, by definition, sexist, which means it promotes the belief that women are innately inferior to men.' Do we really want our children—or anyone—to adopt this belief? When the animated film came out in 1953 (and especially when the book was published in the early 1900's) these patriarchal views of traditional gender roles were the norm. Females were supposed to be submissive to males. If they were not, they were outcast and/or reprimanded. Males were supposed to be the providers and protectors, and if they were unable to fulfill these roles they were considered failures. A lot has changed since then. We have gained new insight and understanding of gender roles. No girl should grow up believing that their only options in life are either that of 'wife' and 'mother' or 'b****'and 'wh*re,' and that if they violate a patriarchal norm—such as expressing their opinions or refusing to submit to a male—they are the latter. No boy should grow up believing that if he does not accept a risky challenge he is a failure, or if he displays feelings such as love, pain, or fear he is a 'coward' or a 'sissy.' Peter Pan leads children to adhere to these oppressive gender roles through the actions and results of its characters: Peter Pan always gives the orders and expects them to be obeyed. Princess Tiger Lily and Tinkerbelle have no voice in any matter—figuratively and literally—they never speak! Tinkerbelle represents Peter Pan's significant other: voiceless and submissive. When she attempts to express her concern over Peter Pan bringing home another girl (Wendy) he promptly banishes her. Peter Pan is the provider and the protector. He never backs down from a challenge, especially if his reputation is at risk (such as when Captain Hook lures him into a battle by calling him a coward). Peter Pan never shows fear and he never fails. He is portrayed as the hero. Captain Hook does show fear, for instance whenever the crocodile is present. He loses all of his battles with Peter Pan, and is then called a 'codfish' because he is weak and helpless. Captain hook is portrayed as the antagonist, or the 'bad guy.' The resulting implication for males is that: strength, power and success at all endeavors = hero; Displays of emotion and unsuccessful attempts = failure and disappointment in all aspects of life. I do not mean to chase anyone off from this movie, but rather to provide a warning to viewers. Even if one does not know what feminist criticism is, or the meanings of 'sexist' and 'patriarchal,' it is still very possible to internalize the concepts subliminally, especially through appealing media, which Peter Pan certainly is. So by all means, watch this movie, but watch it with your and be prepared to follow up with a discussion.
and just think of all the joy you'll find when you leave this hum drum world behind. isn't that why we do this in the first place? to escape the hum drum but stressful real world?the original Disney classics that were made while WD was still alive are hard to rate. some are definitely better than others, but all the original Disney animated features deserve 10 stars in my book. they are all so brilliantly conceived and much better than the later or current animated films made after his death.there are better Disney animated features than 'Peter Pan', and personally, my favorite version is the Leigh and Charlap musical with Cathy Rigby in the role. for me Rigby will always be the definitive 'Pan'. people forget that 'Peter Pan' was originally a stage play and meant to be a pantomime. that's why women played her. most 'Peter Pan' fans surprisingly don't seem to get this.Disney's 'Peter Pan' is totally charming and completely disarming however. and what the Disney version lacks as a adaptation, it more than compensates as a animated film. to this day, like all his classics of hand drawn animation, it remains a testament to the form and really has no peers. as a adaptation this version is rather vulgar and coarse at times, but as hand drawn animation it's superlative. and as hand drawn animation it's flawless and perfect. you really couldn't ask for more.i wouldn't know where to begin. all classics really deserve textual analysis but hey, i'm no intellectual so i'll leave that one to others. but i must say the very best thing i've always felt about this Disneyized version, is it's beautiful color styling and design. newbie Disney aficionados love to claim all the digital enhancement has made these better films. not true. false. wrong. i saw this film many times at the movie theaters and even saw it's last reissue in the 1980's. my memory is not that bad. the films have always looked as wonderful back then as they do today. the enhancement is mostly for TV set viewing which is different than the old celluloid viewings. Disney films have always looked great, the younger generation just doesn't know that.this was also the first film that was acted by a male. way before Jeremy Sumpter, who did an outstanding job i might add. but before Sumpter's brilliant interpretation there was Disney star Bobby Driscoll.aside from the amazing Ludivine Sagnier, this is the definitive Tinkerbell. i know, i know. on stage she's a ball of light and pretty much described that way in Barrie's book. but the Disney interpretation of Tinkerbell is so damned hilarious that you can't resist it. and the original classic film captures the petulance of the spiteful sprite unlike the infantile CGI 'Enchated Tinkerbell' movies that turn Tink into a goody two shoes conformist nit. i think the original Disney Tinkerbell is a funny hoot. the 'enchanted' CGI Tinkerbell just makes me want to get out a fly swatter and make her go away.the original Disney 'Peter Pan' boast colorful and lush visuals as well as some of the funniest and most comical animation the Disney studios ever made. it's a true mind blowing feast for the senses. and the music is wonderful.anyone willing to be a true connoisseur of Barrie should ignore the recent 'enchanted pixie hollow' mess. they are even more removed from Barrie than the original hand drawn Disney classic. and Barrie would have hated them. he always meant Tinkerbell to be petulant and rather heartless. i think if JMB saw the marshmallow she's become he would get out the fly swatter too and put an end to that whole thing. JMB's 'Peter Pan' is a cherished classic and a monument in children's literature. and it should be taken with a little more faithfulness than the CGI films allow.kudos once more to the enigma we know as Walt Disney. he was a truly complicated personality with so many contradictions. he turned all the classics into his own vision, but surprisingly didn't ruin them. trust me. i used to be a reader once upon a time and have read em all from Barrie to Carroll to Collodi and Grim. Disney always does things his way, but manages to come out on top. life would be somewhat empty without him. i just love the eccentric nut job. and i love his classic films.
Peter Pan is a story that only Disney could tell and despite various other attempts to bring the classic novel to the big screen this is by far the best.It captures all of the whimsy and wonder of the original novel and while it softens some of the dark edges it remains faithful to the words of J.M Barrie.All the elements of a wonderful family film are there and the film is marvellous for everyone. It remains one of the best Disney films ever and that is down to the skill of Disney and his animators. Overall a fantastic film that is fantastic for all ages.
After the disappointing and tepid Alice in Wonderland, I was worried about visiting the last of this lesser stage in Disney's pre-70s output. Thankfully, Peter Pan proves to be a very entertaining gem, thanks to some rousing set-pieces and solid animation, as well as a much less meandering and aimless narrative than Alice in Wonderland. Consider it Disney's guilty pleasure, something not really worth cherishing but that's certainly worth viewing for its best elements.Peter Pan is, of course, the classic J.M. Barrie story of siblings to go to Neverland with Peter Pan, the symbol of a child who shall never grow up and who represents the tragedy of lost childhood innocence. All this is done away with here, of course, and to the detriment of the film. While Disney's earlier films are certainly 'Disneyfied,' I'd always felt that they replaced darker narrative with its use of visuals to enough of a degree that the stories remained intact in an intangible matter, but this one certainly feels dumbed down and pandering to me. The compelling Freudian components are here to an extent (with Hans Conried playing both Hook and Mr. Darling...brilliantly, I might add) but are still scooted under the mat in favor of high adventure and likable comic sense. Such things don't negate the entertainment value here, but it prevents me from possibly finding this to be among Disney's best works.Luckily, Disney really does bring us into the world of Neverland. Even London looks like a dream, with some gorgeous background work and surreal visuals that echo Fantasia in its imagination. The use of blue here is beautiful. Likewise, the individual societies characters each make an impact, from the rowdy pirates to the rambunctious lost boys to the exotic Indian tribe (which, it cannot be denied, are incredibly insensitive caricatures).As with many Disney films starring human characters, the protagonists in Peter Pan are actually quite boring. Wendy and her brothers exist only to be cloying and cute. Peter Pan fares better, thanks mostly to his likable ticks, but he's still pretty one-note (one of many characters animator Milt Kahl hated working on). The villains, on the other hand, are great fun. Hook is another iconic character who owns each scene he's in, with work by both Wolfgang Reitherman and Frank Thomas bringing him to life. Disney renaissance animators considered the model villain to strive for, as he not only can be conniving and imposing but also provide plenty of laughs whenever faced with his lone fear (the alligator who took me hand). Personally, I'm not sure the story always puts him in the right role at the right time, since he really should have been more bloodthirsty in certain scenes, but the animation on him is always fun to watch. Smee's often considered by Disney animators to be one of the greatest achievements in animator Ollie Johnston's career, for the reason that it's difficult to believably animate such dumb characters and he pulls it off flawlessly. But everyone's favorite character is, of course, Tinker Bell. Now, I could say it's because Marc Davis does a terrific job of bringing a feminin character to life, but I'll just say what we're all thinking: she's *beep* hot.Really, in the context of this movie, though, these characters don't grow as much as I'd wish. They have a bit too much pointless fun. Screwing with Captain Hook, messing with mermaids, having scavenger hunts or what have you. It's enjoyable viewing, but decidedly empty. I think the moment that sealed my reason for considering this minor Disney comes in the climactic battle, where Hook comes off as too much of a wimp. In the original story, he makes a chilling promise of his return, which would have probably undone the comic aspects admittedly. Still, the narrative gets the job done, and never drags, and there is enough of a presence of certain themes (Wendy acting as a mother figure, Mr. Darling's line at the end) that they don't feel completely left out. It's just not as prominent as I would have preferred.It occurs to me that I haven't spoken much about the original music in Disney's movies. It's wonderful in almost all of them (even Alice in Wonderland) but Peter Pan marks the first time the incidental score really jumped out at me. It is, like the film, thunderous and adventurous, and really one of the best orchestral backdrops to any Disney movie. The one sore spot here is the number 'What Makes the Red Man Red,' which, even taking Song of the South and Dumbo into account, is probably the most racist thing I've ever seen in a Disney movie (before Pocahontas that is...do we notice a pattern here?) Despite my bellyaching about the lack of much real emotionality, it was nice to get a worthwhile viewing here, and to watch some master animators at work. As good as this movie is, however, it was Disney's next few pictures that really marked a true return to form, and which nearly matched the first five pictures in terms of style and storytelling.It's better than Hook at least.
Peter Pan is the classic tale of a boy who will never grow up.The Darling children become part of his world and soon, we are all taken for a ride off to Neverland.What makes this Disney film so special is that is it so unlike any other movie. There are no princesses, no princes, no dragons. It is a magical adventure about children, friendship, and a crazy crocodile.The music isn't brilliant, but that's not the point of this film. Characters like the Lost Boys, Captain Hook, and Smee provide such a great comedic element that the use of musical numbers would be too much to handle.As always, the animation was above excellent. Neverland was beautifully drawn, every aspect was perfect. It glitters and shines.Overall, Peter Pan leaves you feeling happy and wanting to be a kid again. I could watch it again and again and still find something new to marvel at. A true Disney classic.
What a classic! Peter Pan is the story about the boy who wouldn't grow up and a girl named Wendy and her brothers who fly with him to Neverland, greatly shown here by Disney! With heart-warming and funny sequences(The crocodile for sure!), Peter Pan is a must-watch for everyone who loves Classic Disney! The characters are no-way near boring or dull, and the voice-work is outstanding! The songs are great too. I literally think 'You Can Fly' is one of Disney's most known songs. Who could not resist this movie? Seriously, I caught my strict boss at work watching it in her office! Just great. Worth watching for sure!
Peter Pan is a wonderful story, in my top 10 for children's works. Unfortunately, this version does not make the top anything for children's films. Like its predecessor, Alice in Wonderland, this movie loses its soul with the abandonment of the wit and satire so abundant in the original.On the happier hand, it is a good enough film. Tinkerbell became such an icon you cannot say the name without conjuring up the Disney image. The songs are for the most part catchy and somewhat memorable, though I still hold that Katherine Beaumont is a warbly singer at best. The plot is still interesting, but the tension between Wendy and Peter is severely lacking. She is obviously jealous and he (somewhat) naively toys with her, but I miss that tangible tension between the characters that makes you wriggle in your seat. That, and the severe alteration of the original narration and dialog are what keeps the film from soaring.Overall, not the best thing to come out of the Disney vault. But if this is the worst they have to offer (Pixar partnerships excluded), I can by no means complain. My recommendation: skip this and get the 2003 live version. Its excellent in every way: wit, tension and storybook quality.Quote of the Film:-I hereby banish you forever! -Please, not forever! -Well for a week, then.
I first saw this at the cinema back in the 90's, this is probably one of the best Disney films that were made. This is my favorite Peter Pan film that has been made, I didn't care much for the version with Jeremy Sumpter that came out about six years ago. My favorite part was when Peter met the Darling kids John, Michael + Wendy and sprinkles pixie dust on them to make them fly. I also liked the part when the John, Michael and the lost boys sing 'Following The Leader'. I can't explain why but I couldn't take Captain Hook seriously as a villain. I felt they shouldn't of made the sequel back in 2002, the sequels are as never as good as the originals.
Having seen live actions films, animated films, books and plays all done on this same story, I think I can say that I haven't come across a version yet where everything works perfectly. One of the best-known children stories of all time, Peter Pan is still loved and relevant, but each retelling has some difficulty to it that keeps it from reaching its full potential.In the Disney version, it is the character of Peter himself that holds the film back. I attended a stage version that was slightly more faithful to the original source material, and in it, Peter is much more dynamic (if you can believe that a boy who flies can by any more so). Walt Disney himself is said to have been dissatisfied with the result; I think it may have been a necessary evil to subdue Peter a bit to allow for a more balanced story, as he tends to overwhelm everything else in the traditional tellings.What this version DOES do well is create a mood and bring several other characters to life in memorable ways. Tinkerbell, who has become a franchise unto herself, is never as full of personality anywhere else as she is in the first half of this movie. In the DVD extras, she is analyzed as being a forerunner to the modern feminist. Sadly, she has little to do after the scene when she is banished. Wendy Darling is possibly one of the greatest animated characters in any hand drawn film--they way she moves, her facial gestures, her assertiveness all make her a joy to watch over and over. You might not notice it on a casual viewing, but if you watch her, they have drawn her character with a subtle depth that I don't notice in many animated movies, almost as if she was roto-scoped (which she may have been and I haven't found out yet). Most of the songs are likable enough that my two-year old tries to sing them, but nothing compares to 'You Can Fly!' I would put that in a top ten of Disney songs, which is pretty amazing competition. Although I didn't watch this movie when I was a kid myself, when I hear the chorus singing that song, it evokes feelings of nostalgia as powerful as any of my own memories. Also, they dance that Tigerlily does seems like it would have been impossible to animate--that amazes me every time as well.Captain Hook is another character that is somewhat less enjoyable than the original play, though still a great villain. In all, there is lots to like and children and adults should be able to enjoy endless viewings of this together. I know my daughter and I do.
Peter Pan is a very good movie indeed, which is more to be said for its sequel, which I think is one of the worst Disney sequels. While enormously entertaining especially with Hook and the crocodile, it lacks the complexity of the book. However, the animation is beautiful, especially our first look at Neverland and the Mermaid Lagoon. The songs are also lovely, especially '2nd Star to the Right' and 'You can Fly'. I loved the characters. Peter and the Darlings were well done, as well as the lost Boys. I also loved Tinker Bell, and Captain Hook, who was a great villain, until the sequel ruined him. If you want a more complex Hook, try Tim Curry's Hook in the animated TV series Peter Pan and the Pirates, which I personally think should be brought back. Captain Hook was wonderful here, in the series, and Jason Issac's interpretation of the character isn't to be missed either. 9/10 Bethany Cox. PS. I loved the crocodile!
Peter Pan takes Wendy, John and Michael to Neverland, a place where kids never have to grow up.What makes Walt Disney's films so brilliant? Is it the sweet humorous narrative? The colourful characters? The animation? When you look at all his greatest creations, each have a sentimental message encoded. Robin Hood looked at the rich and the poor, Jungle Book triumphantly produced the message of home and the Lion King dramatically reflected on the circle of life. The list is endless and the important message encoded into this classic is growing up.Made in 1953, Peter Pan's message is still relevant today as it once was and continues to please as well as educate through this realistic issue.Growing up is as inevitable as tomorrow and the chance to stay young is something every adult and child has contemplated. They say the best experiences happen at a young age, that youthful imagination and freedom and lack of escapism has all reminiscing.Peter Pan embodies this concept, a young boy who wants to stay youthful forever and in this picture we explore the ups and downs in a mystical adventure.The story stars in London where Wendy is told she will be moving out of the nursery to grow up. The poor dialogue is forgotten as we feel the passion of her domineering father.The film is then turned on its head as Peter Pan enters to take the children to Neverland, a place still remembered today.Neverland is a fine creation. From the evil pirates to the magical mermaids, the place embodies a sense of adventure and excitement. The feeling of anticipation in never lost as the characters make their way around the island, and you get the feeling there is so much more, which raises plenty of imaginative questions.The plot is consistent containing some very funny moments, watch out for the crocodile, an excellent ticking clock creation.There are a few times when realism is thrown away to create excitement, plus there is a share of annoying characters.However with its sense of exploration and solid humour, Peter Pan tells a charming tale of growing up in a sparkling way that will please the family.
Here is another story that I love after I read it in a book - Peter Pan: The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up. Peter Pan has appeared in numerous adaptations, sequels, and prequels since then, including various stage musicals, live-action feature films like Hook and the live-action version of Peter Pan that came out in 2003, and also the authorized sequel novel Peter Pan in Scarlet, that came out in 2006. Out of the adaptations that are the best, I would say that I love Disney's and the new live-action film; I not one to choose side you know.Disney's version of the story, is the widely known film version of the story. So popular that Peter's fairy friend Tinker Bell because the mascot of The Walt Disney Company, and the centerpiece of it's Disney Fairies media franchise including the direct-to-DVD film Tinker Bell. The film also shows Tink actually speaking; she didn't in the original film. Yes, I love this film. The animation and backgrounds are excellent and the casting is very good too, which reprises Kathryn Beaumont (who was the voice of Alice in Disney's Alice in Wonderland) as Wendy Darling. And I love five of the out the six songs from the film, which are:
'The Second Star to the Right,'
'You Can Fly!'
'Following the Leader,'
'What Makes the Red Man Red?' and...
'Your Mother and Mine'. But especially 'Second Star to the Right.'So overall, I would say this film is an excellent film for young and old alike.
This was one of several Disney films that I can recall seeing several times as a kid. I also once read the 'Peter Pan' book by J.M. Barrie (adapted from his play) at school during my elementary years, but don't seem to have any memory of it, even though I had permanent memories of this movie adaptation by then. Eventually, I went off Disney for a long time, but lately, I have been watching Disney films after not seeing them for many years. I finally got around to watching 'Peter Pan' again last night, discovering that it was still good.Wendy, John, and Michael are three siblings in the Darling family who live in a nursery in London, England. One night, after they've gone to bed, they are visited by Peter Pan, who has come with his little fairy friend, Tinkerbell, searching for his shadow! After the three have been awakened, Peter teaches them how to fly, and they fly with him to Neverland! However, much danger awaits them once they arrive, which will make their stay in this magical land difficult! One problem they have to face is the evil Captain Hook and his crew! Hook's hand was cut off by Peter Pan, and he wants his vengeance! Now that Peter has brought the Darling siblings to Neverland with him, the angry pirate captain is a threat to them as well!Now, one thing some may criticise this movie for is the portrayal of the 'Indians' in Neverland. This part of the film is racist, probably more so than any other Disney film I've ever seen, and it did make me feel a little uncomfortable. However, that certainly didn't ruin the entire film for me. Overall, 'Peter Pan' is a fun romp, filled with excitement, nicely colourful animation (maybe better than in previous Disney efforts), and humour. A lot of the humour comes from scenes with Captain Hook and Mr. Smee, two very funny villains! So, no matter what age group you're in, if you're into early Disney animated features, and can get over the racism that I've mentioned, I highly recommend this Disney adaptation of J.M. Barrie's story.
The 14th animated Disney classic is not one of my favorites. It was when I was a kid, but not so much now. There are plenty of other Disney classics which are always a pleasure to watch. However, the same doesn't happen with this one.That said, the movie isn't bad. In fact, it has its own charm and one has to recognize there is nostalgic value about it, not to mention that it's a magical movie. Anyone who was a child in my generation (and before that) is almost for sure familiar with the story of Peter Pan.Strangely, this was the first time that Peter Pan wasn't played by a girl. I have to admit that I was very surprised when I learned that Peter Pan was once played by girls.'Peter Pan' doesn't have the greatness of many other Disney classics. There is some good and some bad about it. What I dislike most about it is any sequence with the Indians. I also think that the Indians, the Lost Boys and most pirates are very poorly drawn. Plus, the Lost Boys are obnoxious and most pirates are annoying (except Captain Hook and Smee).Aside the badly designed characters, the movie's artwork is pretty good in general, with little to be improved. The Big Ben, for example, is amazingly drawn and looks every bit as majestic as it looks in reality. The close-up of Big Ben's clock makes one of this movie's best parts. London in general is well drawn too, the Neverland, Hook's elegant pirate ship... almost everything.There are even well drawn characters, such as Michael Darling, the Darling parents, Nana and Peter Pan.There are plenty of nice funny gags in the film, particularly almost every moment with Mr. Darling, as well as many moments with Hook, Smee and the crocodile. The funniest part of all is when Peter Pan fools Hook by pretending to be the voice of an evil spirit and Smee when he mimics perfectly Hook's voice.The best characters are Mr. Darling, Nana, Michael, Smee, the crocodile and Peter Pan. Why is that? Well, Mr. Darling is a practical and short-tempered father yet good-hearted and hilarious. Nana is the lovable St. Bernard-like babysitter dog. Michael is cute, adorable and innocent as the little one. Smee is more of a comic relief than evil. The crocodile is funny in appearance and personality. Peter Pan is a likable chap, although I recognize that he can be selfish and arrogant at times.Little Michael looks quite a lot like Disney legend Matthew Garber. You better believe I'd really believe that Matthew Garber served as the inspiration to create Michael if I didn't know that Matthew wasn't born until 1956 (this film came in 1953). But the similarities between them are amazing and, to accent them, Matthew played a character named Michael in 'Mary Poppins' (Banks instead of Darling).I almost forgot to talk about Tinkerbell. She is undeniably beautiful and elegant, but hardly likable. She is very jealous, treacherous and mean. She's got some highly questionable attitudes. It's difficult to feel sympathy for her.Captain Hook is indeed one of Disney's funniest villains. But that doesn't change the fact that he is very evil. I don't understand why so many people defend him. He does many despicable things, so he deserves to be tormented by Peter Pan and the crocodile.The Indian Chief is a sinister character. When he says «If Tiger Lily not back by sunset... burnum at stake», that is creepy. His powerful voice makes the line even more disturbing.The film has an interesting voice cast. Hans Conried does a good job both as Mr. Darling and as Captain Hook. Kathryn Beaumont (previously Alice's voice in 'Alice in Wonderland') repeats her talent as Wendy. Bill Thompson, a popular Disney voice, portrays comically well Mr. Smee. Tommy Luske captivates as Michael's voice. And finally the unforgettable Bobby Driscoll as Peter Pan (who also served as live-action model).I appreciate Bobby Driscoll as Pan's voice. This movie is perhaps what he is best remembered for. But as much as it was the pinnacle of his success and film career, it also turned out to be the end of his glory days. It was made in his early teen years and that was notorious in his change of voice. But little did he know what the future had in store for him...As for the soundtrack, it is okay. Some good musics, yes, but generally speaking, not really one of the great Disney soundtracks.To finish off, all you have to do is go to «Second star to the right and straight on till morning».
I don't wonder why this, as far as I know, is considered one of the worst Disney classics ever and I DO wonder how in the world did they manage to have this as the iconic theme for Disney? I guess it is Disney that has made Peter Pan's character well known throughout these decades but only seemingly. I think it's not fair that they take so much credit, when they have never ever told the original story or introduced the original characters as they were meant to be or even got close.First: The characters. This movie makes Peter an elf in Robin Hood costume instead of a human boy in probably-not-Robin-Hood-costume and ignores all the persona characteristics in him that really matter. This movie makes Wendy a babbling idiot. And poor Captain Hook a TOTAL clown. The supposed-to-be-scary crocodile is a drooling puppy dog in this film. And of course as every Disney cartoon must have a character which has had too many hits in the head, they made one of the Lost Boys that one. The only character that has not been completely disgraced in this film is Tink. Even for an independent film that is a bad thing; none of the characters having any originality or depth in them.The story itself then? The Darling parents don't even get the time to notice their kids are gone!!! Probably one of the most significant point in the original story and they ruined it! Also the famous nursery scene between Peter Pan and Wendy is a stunning piece of- There are no thimbles and no acorns - one of the little things that makes the original story such a unique one. It's a wonder he even had lost his shadow and she helped him stick it. (Even though to his shoes and it makes no sense to me.)And the ending is happy through and through. The story made NO difference to any of the characters what-so-ever. Their adventure was POINTLESS even if they were making memories. For the viewer there was no memorable scenes either. I kept forgetting almost everything about this film over and over again, even though I saw this countless of times when I was a kid, like 5 years old or so. I tried to watch this a few time when I was a teen, but again - forgettable! Clever bastards! Making it so forgettable that people end up watching it over again and again. I won't ever again, as now I've written down what I thought of it.Ruining a great story like this, just to amuse children should be illegal. So know now if you haven't known it before - this Disney version does not have anything significant in common with the original story - which is not really a children's story but just a great, great story.And as said, this film is very forgettable all in all. It can be enjoyable for very small children but almost insulting their intelligence by not being... well, more intelligent! And more colorful and more original. This just annoys me to no end.
I am 23 years old and this is my first time watching this movie. I enjoyed it very much and I think this was a good Disney film. The music was one of my favorite parts and I think the score was very important of the film. I like the silly humor and I miss that in the newer Disney films. I love the character of Nanna and thought it was a very well thought out character. There were actually a lot of holes in the story lines and the main characters, like how Tinkerbell wanted to KILL Wendy and how Peter Pan was just a little stuck up brat. It was also interesting to see what was socially acceptable in terms of Native Americans. I also liked how the movie was extremely violent and it just seemed liked it was almost trivializing the violence. The example that comes to head is when the ax hits the tree near Michael when the lost boys were hunting Indians. I also thought the movie was rather scandalous with the Mermaids and Tinkerbell's tiny outfit. The Smee character the crocodile was extremely well done and the scenes when Captain hook was trying not to get eaten were some of my favorites. It was a good movie and it is one of those classics I will want to have around for a while.
There are better Disney films to be seen; among them are Finding Nemo, Snow White, and Beauty and the Beast. However, this IS among their best, and one of my favorites. While entirely politically incorrect, this work retains the heart and love typically demonstrated by early Disney films.This is a grand adventure which provides you with superior animation, a beautiful soundtrack, well defined characters, and-for many-fond memories.It rates a 7.4/10 from...the Fiend :.
The film deserves a 10 but this latest DVD transfer by DTS Digital Images has taken all the brilliance of the latest photochemical Technicolor restoration of this film and thrown it out the porthole...Exactly why that is is anybody's guess: Lack of respect of a 100 years of film-making, lack of interest in the film's history, colour-blindness, lack of supervision by Disney's Nine Old Men? A corporate decision to give the film a radical new look? The refusal on the restorers' part to remove their sunglasses? A horrible computer foul-up? You tell me! What is evident is that the colours have been drastically altered, the contrast is subdued and the bitrate is not very high. The colours are slanted, not so much towards yellow as towards gold. Everything is imbued with a golden glow which makes Tinker Bell the real heroine of the story and brings out the golden highlights on everything from Mr. Darling's cuff links to the golden ornaments on Hook's ship. Peter Pan's tunic is at times a sickly wilted parboiled creamed corn colour. There is no true blue sky, just a variant of Egyptian Blue. Neverland sometimes looks like your lazy neighbour's parched garden. The skies are often milky white or beige. The red and blue wallpaper in the Darling children's bedroom is now a brownish mushy mess. Mermaid Lagoon has lost its greenery and turned a repulsive and rather obscene labia pink... Having said this, it is quite possible that the unwary viewer, taken in by the quality of the animation and the beautifully restored sound, will overlook these limitations but it is still no excuse for this abomination, which is miles removed from the colour values of this film that have been preserved for 55 years in the form of its original artwork. It's a wild, one might say irresponsible concept, which some might call 'experimental', except that experience has gone horribly wrong. What the digital 'restorers' have actually done is to artificially deprive the yellow(negative)/blue(positive) layer of the original 3-strip Technicolor film of about half its information.On the down side, the Redskins have turned a politically correct pink. On the plus side, every brown and yellow surface is made to shine unnaturally, even at night, and lots of things are visible in the dark that weren't before. The reverse is true in the daytime.In the indoor scenes, this slant towards yellow makes sense as it replicates the warm, nostalgic, homey glow of lamplight. Otherwise... The best thing I can say is that it gives the viewer a brand new (though some might say old-fashioned) perspective on a film he's seen maybe too often and the total effect is unreal and reminiscent of a yellowed full-colour illustration in an old picture book. A quick look at the numerous art galleries in the extras will remind you that there should have been a whole lot more green and blue everywhere according to the original artwork.Where the PE really shines, though, is in the sound department which might persuade me to buy this edition (I only rented). The whole soundtrack (dialog, singing voices, orchestra, sound effects) has been completely rethought, refurbished and rechannelled creatively for 5.1 (in French and Spanish too). There is a lot of work evident also in the original mono track. But in the Enhanced home theatre mix (the word 'enhanced' appears three times on the cover), very interesting things happen. The dialog is mostly in the center speaker but the music comes regularly through the other four speakers. At some points, individual instruments are made to come through all the surround speakers (like the harp, when Peter appears on the rooftop, instead of the flute, like you might guess). The sound of instruments and voices has been given more resonance. It is less harsh, dry or abrupt. The children voices are almost bearable in this version. There is nothing grating in the brass or in any other part of the orchestra. Everything sounds modern, natural and free-flowing. Of course, the sound effects have been amplified with bass and the mix makes good use of directional effects (Tinker Bell's glockenspiel and celesta, the crocodile's ticking clock, Peter's ghostly voice in Skull Rock). The whole film becomes a symphony where the music takes center stage without overshadowing the character voices, which are now disentangled from the surrounding music. This is an element that could have seriously added to the dream-like quality of the whole, were it no for the off-kilter colours. By comparison, the 5.1 mix of the Special Edition (2002) and the 4.0 mix of the Limited Edition (1999) was only fat, untreated mono with lots of harshness in the loud passages and instability in the soft ones.Well... considering the radical changes made to the colour palette, maybe they could have called this the 'Golden Slumbers Edition' or 'Pixie Dust Edition' or, better still 'Global Warming Edition'... And it's not something you can correct with the Tint button (which adds red or green) or with the Cold setting (which adds a little blue). But it's perfect if you are sound-oriented and an improved sound is very important to you, if you have no memories of what 'Peter Pan' used to look like or if you really pictured Hook's harpsichord as being made of solid gold.
Despite the wonderful animation, I have always disliked this rendition and from what I have gathered from Disney insiders Walt Disney did not exactly care for it either.None of J.M. Barrie's work is in evidence here. When I saw this as a child, it was my first clue that there was a serious problem with Disney productions writers; which continues to this day.Racist, sexist (need I go on?), claiming that this reflected the 'attitudes of the times' is not only wrong - it is just a convenient cop-out. The only reason this was ever added to the family collection is because my mother insisted. I much prefer the 2003 production directed by P.J. Hogan, it is much closer to what Mr. Barrie actually wrote.
'Peter Pan' contains what is probably the most vicious portrayal of non-white people ever in an animated feature. The Indians are portrayed as red-skinned savages when they first capture Wendy, John and Michael, then as jolly nice guys once Peter Pan rescues the chief's daughter. To add insult to injury, there's even a song asking what makes them red! I know, that's not Disney's fault. J.M. Barrie wrote the novel, so he's the one who created this stereotypical representation of Native Americans. But when we pass off racism as cute entertainment, we're doing a great disservice to any effort to promote peace and justice. But these sorts of portrayals are typical of Disney movies: the minstrel-resembling birds in 'Dumbo', the Siamese cats in 'Lady and the Tramp', and others. And the movie's not just racist, but also sexist. Tinkerbell lives a carefree existence until she sees herself in the mirror and thinks that she looks terrible. Is this the sort of images that we want to push? Anyway, for anything Peter Pan-related, I recommend 'Hook' (come on, folks; it's got Robin Williams playing Peter Pan!), and 'Finding Neverland, about J.M. Barrie (played by Johnny Depp!) writing the story. But the derogatory screed that is this movie works best in classes about stereotypes.
PETER PAN, in my opinion, is an excellent Disney film adaptation of the J.M. Barrie tale. One of the things I liked most about it was the music, especially 'You Can Fly.' If you ask me, it was funny when Peter (voice of Bobby Driscoll) said, 'You're next, Hook.' If you want to know why he said that, you'll have to see the movie. Also, I though that the performances were top-notch, the casting was terrific, and the scenery was beautiful. Oh, and I also loved the music, especially the music that plays during the battle. I hate to admit it, but that was my favorite part. In conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent Disney adaptation of the J.M. Barrie tale to everyone who has not seen it.
I loved this film growing up, and I still do. Alright, so it may not be a musical, but the few songs are still wonderful and imaginative. If you have any kids, or are wondering what to have the kids you're baby-sitting watch, have them watch Peter Pan. (The guidelines say that each comment has to be at least 10 lines, so the rest of this paragraph is just a rant.) In my opinion this is one of THE best Disney films, compared to recent CGI films. I think this is 10/10, and a timeless classic. Everyone can enjoy it, and it will hold a special place in your heart. If you don't watch it, you'll be missing out. And afterward, it will leave a sweet place in your heart. It's one of those special treasures that you can watch again and again and never be bored.
Disney's 1953 film 'Peter Pan' took place in 'olde tyme' England, and children had wished that they could fly. In it are the familiar characters of Peter Pan, Hook, Tinkerbell, and we are magically transported to that place called Neverland, where children would never want to grow up. (Now why in the world would you do that? Oh, well. It's Disney!!!!!)I have first seen this movie back in 2003 or so on the ABC network. Sure, it was more of a marketing type of thing rather than a movie type of thing (I assume the movie is really, really short!!!!!), but it was still magical and enjoyable!The good thing about this movie: it, also, is based on the story, but it's even better in Technicolor!!!!!'Peter Pan' - soar high!!!!! 10 stars
'Disney movies' and 'children's movies' are often used interchangeably, but I believe that Peter Pan is a truly captivating story for both young and old. As a child I was entranced by the beautiful colors and artwork, the mysterious fairies and their magical dust, and the elusive character of Peter Pan. I wanted nothing more than to catch a fairy and keep her as my own. I imagined her teaching me to fly and then leading the way to Neverland. I also found myself yelling at the television near the end of the movie when Peter refuses to go back to London with Wendy. They should get married, darn it! They're perfect together! Hey, I was a kid...Now, as an adult, I see the story for what I believe Sir James Barrie was trying to say. One stage tradition holds that Captain Hook and Mr. Darling are played by the same actor. Disney stuck with this by using the same voice actor. I believe that Barrie was trying to speak on poor father-child relations, which are still present today. Captain Hook is scary. Children fear and often do not understand their fathers. On a similar note is the crocodile which Hook so deeply fears. The crocodile swallowed a clock (as well as Hook's hand) and now chases Hook around. I believe that this symbolizes a man's fear of time. Or rather a father's fear that he is not close with his children and must hurry up before it's too late.I fell in love with Peter Pan (both the character and the movie) at a very young age (it was the first movie I ever saw) and continue to love it today. Young or old, boy or girl, man or woman, this movie will warm your heart and hopefully teach you a lesson or two.
this is a very good movie, but not my favorite version... but it is still good. i like the fact that they make Wendy and Peter older, like in the book... it is very hard to believe that a little boy, like in some other versions, could defeat Hook, and other monstrous things. i have not watched it in a while, but have started it again for a project i am working on. the only thing i don't like, and this is for all versions, and that is the fact that Peter leaves Wendy, he goes back to Neverland, and leaves her. they were meant to be, it makes it a real sad ending.i think it would be fun to rewrite it, with the same basic story, with a better ending.
Without this movie, many things would not have been possible. I went to Disneyland many times last year, and I saw the fireworks display nearly every night.This movie is what makes things possible. Some people think it's 'racist' but I disagree. The Indian scenes made it a little interesting. But I like Tinker Bell; she's one of the most important Disney characters ever created; and she wasn't even created by Walt Disney, but by Peter Pan's creator, J.M. Barrie.I have yet to see 'Finding Neverland,' but I'm sure it deserved the 'Best Picture' Oscar much more than 'Million Dollar Baby.' Back to Peter Pan. The sequel was not very good, but it was made only a few years ago.My score: 7/10.
This is a nice, fun film.Tinker Bell is one of my favorite Disney characters. She is fun, has a temper, loyalty, gets jealous.And, I confess this is the ONLY version of the Peter Pan story I have ever seen, except for 1991 'Hook'.No Mary Martin, No Cathy Rigby either.This is Peter Pan & the only version of interest of me.Already out on DVD twice, Disney needs to release a special edition with extras.Course, the impact of the Tinker Bell character to Disney. One character people just love & you do see her everywhere.Captain Hook is one of my favorite Disney villains. Mr Smee behind him, those 2 make a good match.Wonderful music.And, I can not forget Tic Toc. A favorite scene from the film, a little one, when he misses Hook YET again & he hits the water with the fin/fist/claw.
'Peter Pan' is a story that most children are familiar with. This is a story about three siblings who are introduced to Peter Pan. Peter Pan is a boy who never grew up and who can do magic, fight pirates, and who lives with other boys in a magical world. 'Peter Pan' was never one of my favourite Disney films, and this may be down to personal opinion more than anything else. I could not relate to the children in this film, and maybe this has to do with me being a female or something, but I thought the whole concept of not growing up was silly. Despite not really caring for the story, I did enjoy the Peter Pan film when I was younger. By the film, I am talking about the one starring the female who played Peter Pan.
The Darlings live in a small house in London with their three children: Wendy, John, and Michael. The children love to tell tales about their favorite hero Peter Pan, a boy who will never grow up. Mr. Darling, however, decides that it is time for Wendy to grow up. Later that night, while the Darlings are away at a party, Peter Pan shows up to find his shadow along with the sassy fairy Tinker Bell. Wendy wakes up to discover Peter. He tells her about Neverland, his home. Soon, Peter, Wendy and her brothers are off to Neverland. When the evil pirate Captain Hook discovers that Peter is back, he kidnaps Wendy, John, Michael, and The Lost Boys, Peter's buddies. Peter, with the help of Tinker Bell, saves the day.This Disney classic is an audience pleaser, even after 53 years when it was first released. It is wonderfully adapted from the J.M. Barrie book and play. It also has a wonderful voice cast, including Disney veteran Bobby Driscoll as Peter, Kathryn Beaumount (who played the title role in Disney's ALICE IN WONDERLAND) as Wendy, and Hans Conried, playing both Captain Hook and Mr. Darling. The songs, including 'Following the Leader', 'The Second Star to the Right', and 'You Can Fly! You Can Fly!', are memorable. A true Disney masterpiece! 10/10
Walt Disney's loving animated rendering of James Barrie's play 'Peter Pan' is another one of the great Disney classics that must be seen by all lovers of animated film. Story of a boy from Never Never Land who flies and refuses to grow up doesn't hold a lot of great significance, but it is boldly fantastic and sweetly sentimental nevertheless. The voice-work (particularly by Bobby Driscoll as Peter) is fabulous, as are the smart, lively musical cues and background design (when Pan leads the Darling children over the clouds miles above London, the depth and color and swooping action are really exciting). The song score isn't up to Disney's best, although the entire 'You Can Fly' sequence is a centerpiece attraction in and of itself. The direction smoothly introduces all the characters, but there's a poor gap in the narrative after Tinker Bell is apparently hurt in an accident; also, there's far too much of the ticking crocodile (designed to mug for the camera). Still, vain pixie Tinker Bell provides a lot of visual slapstick and the ending is heartwarming. *** from ****
Having seen this movie again several times recently, I have learned to appreciate this film a little more. While not nearly as good as some of the more famous Disney films (such as Beauty and the Beast, Bambi or Little Mermaid), it still deserves a 9 because it is head and shoulders better than other kids movies. The animation is very good, pace is fast and the movie is just fun. The negatives are simply a product of the times, in that this is about the most politically incorrect Disney film ever made (perhaps more so than Song of the South). I'm sure that MANY American Indians watch the film and deservedly cringe at the depiction of Indians, who seem rather dumb and sing the song 'what makes the red man red?'--an ode to every terrible stereotype about Indians. BUT, I am a strong believer in discussing these things and NOT condemning the entire film. In fact, I am a history teacher and have used the film to talk about these aspects of the film.
When I was a kid Peter Pan was with no doubt my hero. Growing up it later became Gambit, since, well, he rules. But I'll always remember Peter Pan as one of my favorite characters. And as one of my favorite movies.J.M. Barrie was a genius. This story has so many things that I, and many others, loved when we were kids. Pirates, Indians, a cool hero. I really like the story. And Disney made what no other film had done before. To capture the spirit in a very, very effective way. Being animated there was no limits and Peter Pan could truly be Peter Pan, without any annoying ropes from his back.This was one of my favorite film when I was a kid. And Disney best film ever... Until The Lion King came.
As a kid I used to love this cartoon a lot better than Steven Spielberg's live action film. The only one thing they changed about this film is that Tinker Bell saved Peter Pan by throwing away an about-to-explode bomb instead of drinking poison. Anyway, basically three Darling (that's their surname) children Wendy, John and Michael all have their own thoughts and feelings, and Wendy mainly doesn't want to grow up. Obviously, flying Peter Pan (the boy who never grows up) takes them to the magic world of Neverland where this is possible. Captain Hook is trying everything he can to catch Pan when he realises he is back. Also with Indians, Mermaids and the Lost Boys. It was number 91 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, and it was number 79 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Very good!
I'd go as far to say that this is my second all-time favorite movie. ^.^ To tell the truth, I actually have a huge crush on him. ^.^ I like the parts with Tigerlily. There's this one musical number where she's dancing, and Peter's watching her, and I think he was being hypnotized just by watching her dance. She's pretty good. At dancing, I mean.There's also this one scene where Peter FINALLY shows up with Tink looking for his Shadow. As you might have guessed, Shadow has a mind of his own while he's detached from Peter. So after he gets out of the drawer, they're chasing each other, and when Peter does catch up to Shadow it's only because he tripped. And broke something. And woke Wendy up. So she gets out her sewing kit and re-attaches Shadow to Peter.Peter gets real sentimental in the after-explosion scene. Tink's the one who saved him from the bomb, so she almost dies. He saves her somehow, and tells her she means everything to him. (okay that's not exactly what he said but still) I think he almost starts crying when he says that.Might I also add the fact that he was getting all pouty during Wendy's song. I think it might be because he was remembering his own mother, who was killed by Hook a long time ago. Okay, I just made that up. But it might be true. And in the scene after that, I'm pretty sure he'd already fallen asleep (even though it wasn't shown) 'cause he didn't hear Wendy scream.In closing, Peter looks pretty good in tights.
Overall, this film is definitely one of Disney's best. Although many people my age may find it boring and a little babyish, I can't help but think of all the wonderful jokes in it, that make it suitable for not just toddlers and little children. The action and heroism of Peter Pan instantly makes children love him. Mr Darling is very funny, as is Captain Hook. The Darling children's personalities fit perfectly, making it a film I could watch over and over again. I especially love the crocodile - when I was a child I never noticed how hilarious he was, but now I laugh every time I see him! The graphics are good, the scene when they are flying over London is particularly good, where you see all the recognisable landmarks, and it really captures the sense of excitement in the children.However, some things I disliked. Firstly, although Peter is great for enchanting younger children, the way he is always in charge and boasts around being superior annoys me every time. The Lost Boys, also, in my opinion were not as good as they could have been, if they had been given the other half of their brains. Tinkerbell looked great, but she could have had a bigger role, and a less vain appearance.Other than that, I highly recommend this film!!
'Peter Pan' is undoubtedly one of the best of Disney's films. The story isn't too deep or meaningful, as, say, 'Bambi'. The power behind it is the familiarity. Every little kid yearns to haveadventures like Peter, so everyone identifies with the story. To tell the truth, the film is kind of episodic, like an extra-large TV cartoon special. The climax is fittingly climactic, but the final defeat of Hook isn't really powerful enough, which makes it disappointing after all the flashy swordplay. Speaking of Hook, he and Mr Smee are inevitably the scene-stealers, no matter how beloved Peter may be to children. The same way, in Hook/Smee scenes, if you throw in a hungry crocodile, the monstrous reptile will overshadow even Hook. Wendy really looks too old to be horrified about growing up, though, except for the sequences in which she fantasizes about Never Land with all the authenticity of a three-year-old. Never Land is beautiful, to say the least. The lush jungles and the mermaid lagoon is wonderfully brought to life, as is the eery Skull Island. This is the best showcase for the art direction. Also excellent is the detailed, meticulous design of the wooden hideout of the Lost Boys.'Peter Pan' is one of my all-time favorites. It has humor, great animation, and the best part of it is a simplistic story that revolves around the desires of the child within all of us (I'm still twelve, so I never had to look too deep). A must-see for any animation fan, particularly Disney buffs, the young and the young-at-heart.9/10
Peter Pan is no doubt the best Disney movie.The story line is everything that people look for in a great family movie a boy who never grows up,a magical island(Neverland),pirates,indians,mermaids and fairies that will help complete the story. I wish there was a real Neverland where i could escape to when times get hard and Peter Pan who would help me during my knew life crisis and help me understand my problems.If Peter Pan was real i think all kids wouldn't have to deal with the responsibilities of becoming older they would be concentrating on the present not the future.All they would want to do is have fun and everyone would keep there window open.I'll always believe in Peter Pan and fairies especially Tinker Bell.love #1 rtist.
'Peter Pan' is without a doubt one of Disney's classics, alongside animated features such as 'Snow White' and 'Pinocchio.'  It captures the imagination just as J.M. Barrie's novel and play have.  In the movie, the eternally young Peter Pan takes Wendy Darling and her brothers to Neverland, a place of the imagination, populated by Indians, mermaids and pirates.  Captain Hook, voiced by Hans Conreid, will always be a classic villain, and his henchman, Smee, is a perfect comic relief.  There are many funny scenes and good animated sequences.  Beneath it all, the story speaks to the kid in all of us.  We remember how important it can be to remain young at heart.
Peter Pan is one of my all time favorite animated films, this is just such a great classic that doesn't get enough notice. This is one of those movies that is so memorable and I'm surprised that honestly this movie isn't in the top 250. Captain Hook is one of my favorite Disney villains if not my number one, he's just plain hilarious and great entertainment. It's odd that I voted more for him and his pirates, just that they seemed like they were the group that you would invite to a party. Watching this movie for so many years, since I was a child, the story still hasn't lost it's touch. It's such a wonderful movie that not only the family could get into, but even I'll just watch it on my own if I want a cute movie. This is one of the best Disney movies of all time and the story of Peter Pan is told so wonderful you can't help but fall in love with it as well.In London, George and Mary Darling's preparations to attend a party are disrupted by the antics of the boys John and Michael, acting out a story about Peter Pan and the pirates, told to them by their older sister Wendy. The father angrily declares that Wendy has gotten too old to continue staying in the nursery with them, and it's time for her to grow up. That night they are visited in the nursery by a pixie named Tinker Bell and cocky Peter Pan, who teaches them to fly and takes them with him to the island of Never Land. A ship of pirates is anchored off Never Land, commanded by Captain Hook with his sidekick Mr Smee. Hook boldly plots to take revenge upon Peter Pan for cutting off his hand, but he trembles when the crocodile that ate it arrives. The crew's restlessness is interrupted by the arrival of Peter and the Darlings. The children easily evade them, and despite a trick by jealous Tinker Bell to have Wendy killed, they meet up with the Lost Boys, six lads in animal-costume pajamas who look to Peter as their leader. John and Michael set off with the Lost Boys to find the island's Indians, who instead capture them, believing them responsible for taking the chief's daughter Tiger Lily. Meanwhile, Peter takes Wendy to see the mermaids, where they see that Hook and Smee have captured Tiger Lily, to coerce her into revealing Peter's hideout. Peter and Wendy free her, and Peter is honored by the tribe. Hook then plots to take advantage of Tink's jealousy of Wendy, tricking her into revealing the location of Peter's lair. The pirates lie in wait and capture the Lost Boys and the Darlings as they exit, leaving behind a time bomb to kill Peter. I'm always going to love Peter Pan, my sister and I still have so much fun with this movie, we constantly rehearse the scene of George, the father, screaming about how the family loves the dog more than him, it's a great scene. But still one scene that always gets me rolling on the floor laughing is when Peter Pan tells Captain Hook to scream in front of his crew and Peter's lost boys that he's a codfish, and you see everyone just cheer and make fun of Captain Hook as well as that blasted crocodile that won't leave him alone. This is such a great movie, if you haven't seen it, I highly recommend it, it's a fun film to watch and will always hold a great place in my heart. 10/10
I first saw Peter Pan in 1990, when I was three.  We still have our beat-up copy of it, and each time I watch it, it's like I'm reliving 1990-1991 all over again.  Best time of my life.  I truly believed in Neverland, and became enthralled with mermaids and pirates and the idea of never growing up.  I now know that you can be an adult on the outside, but still be a child on the inside.  I'm sixteen now, and I'm still four years old on the inside.  This movie is a wonderful reminder of childhood.
Peter Pan is one of my all-time favorite Disney films. A classic from the old days and one of those films that don't lose their magic touch. And their humor. A funny, adventurous film that has become immortal. Also, it has one of Disney's most famous characters, Tinker Bell. That pixie dust of hers made Peter Pan fly into victory. Captain Hook is very amusing alongside his amusing first mate, Mr. Smee. 'Classic' is written all over this film. Watching Peter Pan fighting off pirates is exciting and watching Captain Hook whine like a girl when Tick Tock's around is very amusing. The ride at Disneyland may be short, but the film on my TV screen will never be too long. Disney is a wonderful animator genius. Good job, Walt. No! Excellent job!! Rest in peace.
After great Disney classics like 'Snow White', 'Pinocchio', 'Bambi' and 'Dumbo' and a nice one like 'Alice in Wonderland' I have to say 'Peter Pan' is a little disappointing. Just a little though. It has all the nice Disney ingredients so it is still pretty entertaining. The crocodile that has eaten the hand of Hook (and the ticking clock) and wants the rest of his body has the funniest scenes, one with Smee (voice by Bill Thompson) in particular. Hook (Hans Conried) and Peter Pan (Bobby Driscoll) have some funny scenes as well. Wendy (Kathryn Beaumont, also voice of Alice in 'Alice in Wonderland') is your usual Disney woman, adorable but sometimes a little too good and brave. All this together makes a nice Disney movie, but not much more than that.
If Walt Disney had never made another cartoon feature after BAMBI in 1942 he would still be remembered as the man who transformed the animated full length film into an art form. SNOW WHITE , PINOCCHIO , FANTASIA and BAMBI all belong on the list of the greatest achievements in American Film. Disney's next phase in full length animation took place after World War 2 and although these subsequent works may not match the brilliance and creativity of the earlier films, they still possess the superb craftsmanship the Disney artists are famous for. Missing from the new batch of films was the meticulous background detail that distinguished the earlier projects. Starting with Cinderella in 1950, the animators seemed to concentrate more on clean, uncluttered backgrounds but the drawing was just as professional as before , characters still brought to life with fluid, lifelike movements. Colors tended to be bright and splashy, but the cartoonists also knew when subtlety was called for, and scenes occurring at night were done with convincing atmosphere and shadows. The success of Cinderella confirmed that the movie-going public was still willing to be entertained and moved by a cartoon movie, and Disney and his artists forged ahead with an impressive array of animated features that to this day remain models of the Art Form. Perhaps the greatest of these was PETER PAN, first released in 1953. Based on J.M. Barrie's immortal play and novel about the little boy who doesn't want to grow up, PETER PAN had been a project stewing in Disney's mind for years. It wasn't until after the War that work on the film really took off. When the movie was completed and finally released to theaters, Disney seemed rather ambivalent about its achievement. He had a hard time defining who Peter actually was as a character but to millions of children in movie theaters all over the world, that didn't seem to matter. PETER PAN is not very deep story-wise. It lacks the heart and sentiment of the Barrie original, which to some degree is a good thing. Past stage versions and the spectacular 1924 Paramount film version could be cloyingly sentimental at times.The Disney version is light and breezy and moves at a clip. The London sequence which opens the picture is spectacular in both the backdrops and the animation itself. When Peter, Wendy, John and Michael leap out of the Darling nursery window and fly over nighttime Edwardian London the viewer is treated to some of the most thrilling animation ever created for the movies. Later sections of the movie are equally enchanting, and the personage of the villainous Captain Hook is brought to great comic life by Disney animators and the marvelous vocal talent of Hans Conried. As with past Disney efforts, the song score is superb. 'Second Star to the Right', 'You Can Fly' and 'Your Mother and Mine' are highlights in a tuneful soundtrack created by Sammy Cahn and Sammy Fain.PETER PAN holds a special place in my heart. It was the first movie I ever saw. As a 4 year old sitting with my father in an ornate, red carpeted movie palace in Cincinnati, Ohio, looking up at that big screen watching Peter and his friends swooping and flying over the roofs and spires of London was an overwhelming experience. I was hooked, so to speak, and it is an image that has stayed with me ever since. This is the film that initiated my love affair with movies. PETER PAN is one of the iconic films of the Baby Boom Generation.
Some might think it is childish in nature, but I would disagree! This is a great movie for people of any age! If you have not seen it yet, I would strongly recommend to get it ASAP. Peter Pan is a great metaphor in my opinion, there is a lot to be found between the lines.
This Disney cartoon classic offers flights of fancy that appeal directly to children's fertile imaginations. The ability to fly and be a devil-may-care youngster and never grow up, exploring a fantasy island of Indians, pirates, mermaids and mysterious caves is a powerful magnetic pull for young dreamers. The production's artwork is beautiful, and the characters and catchy tunes add to the pleasure of watching this movie. Peter Pan is nearly upstaged by his companion Tinker Bell, a temperamental pixie who is jealous and possessive of Peter's friendship with Wendy. Captain Hook and his shadow, the crocodile, the sniveling Smee, the beautiful mermaids, and the stoic Tiger Lily are all memorable characters. The catchy tunes also make this adventure one of Disney's best.
Except for The Jungle Book (which I watched every day as a kid), Peter Pan was probably my favorite Disney film during my childhood. Why? Its in the story. I mean, who hasn't been a kid and wished they could fly or do something else magical at least once in a lifetime? Neverland is a place kids dream about, having adventure with Indians and mermaids and pirates. That is what makes this film so wonderful, that despite its simple plot, its less than complex characters, it is something that brings back memories. It is something that kids can relate to, and something that teenagers and adults can watch and think, 'Ah, I remember when I used to wish I were like that.' There's no real moral, just a simple story that is purely entertainment. And that is why I loved this and The Jungle Book so much when I was a young kid. Now older, my perspectives have changed, but not even Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, and Mulan, my three favorite Disney films, have such sentimental value to me as those two films do. Its just a shame that the sequel to Peter Pan was horrendous, I hope they don't do the same to The Jungle Book this February.
I recently saw this movie again, and I felt as though I was watching it for the very first time again. It's got a magical feel to it, and I didn't feel silly watching it, even though it's aimed at younger kids and I'm a teenager. I guess the one thing that often made me wince was Wendy's voice. She sounds way too old, and in the movie they say she's a child, so we're expected to think she's around the age of ten or something, except she looks like she could be fifteen. She's still very mature, and I didn't see the problem with her 'growing up'. She had to grow up sooner or later.But overall, I like this movie, especially considering that it's one of Disney's earliest productions. It's one of those movies that's enchanting.
Peter Pan the boy who did not want to grow up. Wendy, John, and Michael children who know well who Peter Pan is. Wendy tells her little brothers stories of Peter Pan each night before bed.One night Peter Pan and his little fairy Tinker Bell come to visit and hear the stories, and also to find his shadow. Wendy and the boys wake up to find Peter Pan in their room, when he finally asks them to come visit his Never Never Land. He shares with them the lost boys who need a mother and someone to tell them stories. Wendy and her brothers agree to come. With a pinch of pixie dust and good thoughts they begin to fly, following Peter, second star to your right and straight on till morning. The adventure begins, pirates, mermaids, Captain Hook, join in and enjoy the magical journey, that takes only one night. Fun for the whole family.
When I first saw Peter Pan, I was in love. In the true Disney-era '50s opening sequence, I got goosebumps.The cheesy credits were so cute. IMO, at least. The storyline is great, and besides, flying?!?!?! Me and my sister always tried to fly, always failing, but it's so cool to watch Wendy, John, and Michael.But the sexism and racial stereotypes in Neverland shouldn't have been portrayed as ok. After all, Native Americans are people too.But I gave this movie a 10 and is one of my favorite movies.
Peter Pan is a beautiful movie. It entrances you into the story and you just join in in the magic and fun. From the Darling nursery in downtown London, to the the night sky above England to the decks of Jolly Roger pirate ship, it is an everlasting tale for anyone
Barrie's 'PeterPan' is a highly complex story.There are strong elements of social satire,moral ambiguities,deep psychological issues,and emotional traumas investigated in this play.Almost all these aspects have been eliminated in the animated version.Topics such as: dealing with our parents,abandonment,mixed feelings toward our loved ones,and developing a mature adult libidinal attitude have all been erased.Hook's escape at the end,and the return of Peter AND the Lost Boys to Neverland violate some of the core elements of the story.Those criticisms aside,this is really well done.The animation is excellent;the characterizations are first-rate;and by actually having Peter done by a boy,an element of a (benign )sexual rivalry between Wendy and Tiger Lily is introduced.The boys,pirates,and Indians are marvelous,and the crocodile is a masterpiece.(He does act more like a dog than a reptile;Nana come back in disguise,maybe?He reminds me of a miniature dachshund I owned for 13 years.)This is probably the best way to introduce anyone to Peter Pan.
Peter Pan is one of Disney`s best movies of all time. It is about the boy, who didn`t want to grow up and it is a fabolous adventure that is high on atmosphere, adventure, style and entertainment. Many of the songs are superb, and the voices are good.  Watch it with the original English dialogue, it is way better than the poorly dubbed versions that plague European countries. If you want a superb adventure, go for 'Peter Pan'. 9/10
This is one of the most charming, magical movies ever!  It is an adaptation of James Barrie's Peter Pan, the story of the boy who wouldn't grow up.  It starts in London, where a very proper Wendy has one night left in the nursery before she most grow up.  Her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Darling are out for an office party, and the nursemaid, a dog named Nana is tied up outside for the night.  Peter Pan comes and takes Wendy and her brothers John and Micheal away to Neverland, 'the second star to the right and staight on til morning', with the help of the pixie dust from the jealous little pixie Tinkerbell. A sprinkling of the dust makes them fly, just like Peter does. Once in Neverland they encounter mermaids, Indians, and the foppish, but evil villian Captain Hook.  This beloved story will bring you back to your childhood and this delightful score will be hard to forget!  It is sure to have you singing along!  This is a wonderful movie that can be enjoyed by children and adults alike!
The first time I ever had the pleasure of watching the Peter Pan story was with the Steven Spielberg production of Hook.I found the Walt Disney 1953 version of Peter Pan outstanding in every way. Like all of the Disney animated classics I can honestly say when you sit down to watch one you just forget that it is an animated feature that you are viewing and Peter Pan is no exception.Peter Pan is the story of a boy who refuses to grow up.  This production has so much to offer the viewer with the humour, music and action scenes especially with Peter Pan and Hook.  But we must not forget Wendy and her two brothers John, Michael and of cause Tinker Bell, the Lost Boys and the magical island in the heavens called Never Land where the story takes place.
So if you like a fun filled action adventure Peter Pan is certainly for you.
I haven't read Barrie's book, so take what I'm about to say with a grain of salt.  But judging from the play, Disney's film, and Spielberg's dreadful `Hook' ... I don't like the WORLD of Peter Pan, and I don't see how anyone could.  Where's the magic?  It's just a series of children's make-believe games invested with solidity; and anyone who thinks there's anything particularly imaginative or interesting about the content of children's games must be unacquainted with children to the point of never having been one.Disney's film has assured animation, a GLORIOUS villain (Hook is a fop with no qualms whatever about killing people), and a Tinkerbell more motivated by sexual jealousy than anything else - she doesn't even try to charm people. So far, so good.  Never-neverland has been painted with lots of muted purples, its sombre, overcast skies cutting it off from the rest of the world.  An excellent touch.  But no-one can disguise the fact that it's still a dull place, requiring Hook's pirates to give it any life at all. And the story of the battle between Hook and Pan is not at all compelling. It's like a child's game in that it combines the unreality and incoherence of a dream with the greyness of a spur-of-the-moment lie, which is surely a bad thing.An exceptionally well made film, then, with basic material I simply can't warm to - and I think I'm right not to warm to it.
This was one of the best Disney classics, no masterpieces made, it was funny, colorful, lively, stylish, entertaining, thrilling, and had everything in it, to go round. I give it a 9 out of 10.
When I was a little girl, Sleeping Beauty was my all time favorite Disney film. I was so in love with this story, it's crazy how many times I wore out the VHS. But growing up, I lost touch with the story, but I recently bought the DVD and re-watched the film and you know what? I'm still in love with this movie. I really miss these old Disney movies where the animation was so bright and beautiful, the characters were so lovable, and the story was so magical. I'm not bashing Disney films from today, just I'm sure we could all relate on this subject where the older Disney films just had a certain charm about it. Sleeping Beauty is just a timeless story and has so much wonderful romance, I guess since I'm a girl, I just couldn't help but still be in love with this beautiful story.Princess Aurora is born and is the future queen of her land, three fairy's, Flora, Merryweather, and Fauna bless her with three gifts: beauty and song, right as Merryweather is about to bless Aurora, the evil witch, Maleficent, comes in and curses Aurora that she shall touch a spinning wheel by her 16th birthday and die! Merryweather changes it to where she won't die, but sleep and could only be woke up by the kiss of true love. The fairy's wish to keep this from happening still, so they take Aurora and raise her as their own. One day Aurora on her 16th birthday goes out in the forest and meets the charming and handsome Prince Phillipe, but she doesn't know he's a prince and she doesn't know he's fhe man she's actually betrothed too. She is told by the fairy's that she can never see him again and that she's a princess; later that night the curse happens! Now the fairy's need Phillipe to save Aurora before it's too late.Everything about Sleeping Beauty is just a perfect Disney film and I can't wait until to show this to my future kids one day. I know that their generation is going to have just the CGI animation, so it's good that at least we still have these films, they're treasures. The voices, the animation, the story, Sleeping Beauty is the most romantic fairy tale that anyone could easily fall in love with. If you are a Disney fan, this is a must see, it's a great family film or if you're just a film buff in general, I'm a grown up and I still tear up when I watch Sleeping Beauty.10/10
...which is that it may have been designed more for an adult audience than a children's. At any rate it was way ahead of its time in 1959. 'Sleeping Beauty' was one of the movies I watched as a child, and its grandness overwhelmed me even at the age of ten. I couldn't be happier to see it finally in the DVD format. But watch closely; you'll notice many subtle, sophisticated things which other viewers have touched on in earlier reviews. The animation is almost surreal-- so incredibly lifelike that it abandons its cute, 'Disneyesque' pretensions from previous fairy tales. There are no talking mice, dogs or cats anywhere to be seen. Here the animals are silent, as animals are supposed to be. (I love the sequence with the forest animals as they are awakened by the singing of the barefoot princess and join up with her, like multiple chaperons, in harmonious whistles.) Even the fairy godmothers- who may initially appear as sugary stereotypes- spend so much time bickering (well, two of them do anyway) that you get to identify them as thoroughly fleshed out personalities. The adaptation of the original Perrault fairy tale is also impressive. An ingenious move was to have the prince and princess meet in the forest *first* and fall in love- unaware that they are already engaged to be married. Someone mentioned the chilling sequence which shows the princess, cloaked in an eerie green pallor, actually being lured to the fateful spinning wheel. So dark, so frightening- when was the last time you saw something like this in a Disney fairy tale? And then immediately afterwords is a cleansing sequence of unmatched beauty showing the fairies sailing through the sky like fireflies, magically dusting the rest of the castle to sleep. It is, of course, only matched by the film's finale which shows storm clouds, lightning, a forest of thorns, and a flame-spewing dragon-- all seamlessly bringing the story to a 75-minute conclusion. It stands, in my opinion, as Disney's masterpiece.
I grew up in the Disney era where 'Little Mermaid,' 'Beauty and the Beast,' 'Aladdin' and 'The Lion King' reigned supreme among me and my elementary school pals (and to this day, if you ask one of my peers what their favorite Disney movie is, it's probably one of those or one of the Disney-Pixar creations).  But one Disney film has always remained my utter favorite and that is, indeed, 'Sleeping Beauty.'Like most children, I grew up watching Disney movies -- everything from animated films like 'Snow White' to 'Lady and the Tramp,' the semi-animated like 'Mary Poppins' and 'Bedknobs and Broomsticks,' and the non-animated such as 'The Parent Trap' and 'Old Yeller.'  But 'Sleeping Beauty' remains my favorite animated movie and you'd better believe at seventeen years of age, I'm still watching it.  I cannot believe how the animation has been knocked in some reviews -- it's beautiful!  They captured the medieval period so well and even the people look like, well, people.  The score is beautiful and the songs 'I Wonder' and 'Once Upon a Dream' are sung wonderfully by Mary Costa.  What a voice!  Aurora is by far one of the prettiest Disney princesses (one thing that initially drew me to the movie as a child), following the formula with those trademark doe-eyes that Disney bestows upon all of their princesses and heroines.  Prince Phillip actually does more than just show up to sing a song and say one line, a welcome change that answers the age old question, 'What does she see in him anyway?' The three fairies are delightful (I always wanted to be Fauna!) and funny. And of course, there's the quintessential villain -- Maleficent.  She scared me when I was younger and when I view the film now, no wonder.  (For the longest time, I was also scared of Eleanor Audley period, but she's truly a marvelous actress.)  And when Phillip kills her -- yeah, you'd better believe that's some scary business.  The story is beautiful and funny, the animation is divine, the music ethereal, and the voice talents extraordinary.  This is a personal favorite and it comes highly recommended!
'Sleeping Beauty' was envisioned by the great Walt Disney as his masterpiece--the feature-length cartoon par excellence. And, in many ways, it is. The then-record budget (six million dollars) was the largest ever for an animated motion picture. The widescreen Technirama 70 process had never been used for an animated feature. The six-track magnetic stereo sound was a step upward from the 'Fantasound' system employed in 'Fantasia' (1940). Also new and trend-setting was the style of the animation--a more realistic, geometric design which, surprisingly left many critics and audiences cold. The extra expense needed to showcase the widescreen film properly, together with the lukewarm reviews, prevented 'Sleeping Beauty' from turning a profit at the box office when it was released (with much fanfare) in 1959. But time has been kind to the film, subsequent reissues have finally put it in the profit margin, and both viewers and critics are appreciating it for the beautiful fantasy it has always been. However, like it's predecessor 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' (1937) which was Disney's first fairy tale, as well as his first full-length film, this screen adaptation of 'Sleeping Beauty' strays from it's origins. While the Charles Perrault version of the tale is given as the source, there are new variations. The original story is as follows: When a baby girl is born to a King and Queen, they invite seven (or, in the Grimm version, twelve) Fairies to the christening. Uninvited is an evil fairy, who shows up anyway, and curses the child with death on her 16th birthday. Although a good fairy is able to alter the spell, the princess is doomed to sleep (along with the court) for 100 years. Despite the precautions taken, the curse is fulfilled (accidentally, in most versions of the story) and the princess does indeed sleep for a century, after which a prince awakens her. Understandably, Disney's telling departs from Perrault here as well, because in Perrault's version, the King and Queen are the sole members of the court who do not succumb to the sleeping spell, and, eventually die of old age. The Disney version of the tale whittles the number of good fairies down to three, giving them the appearance and personalities of elderly women. Meanwhile, the evil fairy, dubbed Maleficent, is a cold, flamboyant villainess who, for better or worse, overshadows everyone else in the film (but then, the villain always does). Disney's retelling also dispenses with the Heroine's 100 year sleep which lasts merely one night. There is much emphasis put on the three fairies who secretly, in the guise of peasants, raise the baby princess Aurora, (whom they dub 'Briar Rose' interestingly, the name given the Princess in the Grimm retelling) and, unwittingly make it possible for Maleficent to execute her curse. Also new, is the introduction at the beginning of the film of Prince Phillip, who is immediately betrothed to Aurora. The climatic battle he has with the evil fairy, here transformed into a dragon, has become one of the most memorable parts of the film, though it was purely the scriptwriter's invention. In the end, however, it is best to appreciate the film as a stand-alone creation, rather than a faithful adaptation of a classic story. Indeed, as some latter-day critics have pointed out, 'Sleeping Beauty' has been embraced by the young and old audiences who find in it many of the same sword and sorcery elements in films like 'Legend' and 'Excalibur'. And every penny of it's then-unprecedented budget is on the screen. One marvels at the intricate design of the animation, all accomplished well before the advent of computers, which the Technirama screen showcases to full effect. The voice talent is perfect. Mary Costa, who went on to an estimable opera career, is a lovely and expressive Aurora, while Bill Shirley is an ingratiating Prince Phillip. Eleanor Audley (so deliciously cold as the stepmother in Disney's 'Cinderella') is the embodiment of majestic evil as Maleficent. Verna Felton (the Fairy Godmother in Disney's 'Cinderella'), Barbara Jo Allen and Barbara Luddy are the delightful (and all too human) fairies, Flora, Fauna and Merryweather. Aurora's father, King Stefan, is voiced by Taylor Holmes, with Bill Thompson as Phillip's father King Hubert. A word should also be said for Candy Candido, who provided the sounds made by Maleficent's goons. The Tchaykovsky ballet score provides both the background music and melodies used for the new songs. All this blends perfectly in an epic adventure/fantasy seldom experienced on screen, and one with enough heart to capture the most cynical viewer. The Special Edition DVD, released in 2003, and currently out of print, is another example of what a 'Special Edition' truly encompasses, including a fully restored widescreen print of the film, a new 5.1 stereo mix which fully showcases the Academy Award nominated score, as well as many bonus features with appeal to all ages (including a widescreen/fullscreen comparison which should be the last word on that subject). Also included are several complimentary historical shorts like the Academy Award winning 'Grand Canyon' which accompanied 'Sleeping Beauty' on it's initial release. Trailers, games, interviews with Mary Costa and surviving animators, vintage featurettes which delve into the making of the film, and last, but not least, footage of Disney himself, complete the dazzling package. Finally awakened from her long slumber, and more refreshingly lovely than ever, 'Sleeping Beauty' is a film (and DVD) for the ages.
When 'Sleeping Beauty' was first released it was the target of critical villification--perhaps because of the more stylized art work. The art work is actually a leap forward from 'Snow White' and the earlier classics. It took me awhile to get used to the new technique when I first viewed the film--but now I recognize how effectively it manages to convey the 'feel' of a genuine fairy-tale. A nice discussion of the art work is featured in 'The Making of Sleeping Beauty' which accompanies the latest VHS release of the film. Aside from the richly textured backgrounds and brilliant animation, 'Beauty' is blessed with the rapturous singing voice of Mary Costa's light soprano doing full justice to the ballad, 'Once Upon A Dream'. The idea of using Tchaikovsky's 'Sleeping Beauty' music for the background score and songs was an excellent decision. This is a film that can be enjoyed on so many different levels--music, animation, story, art work--it ranks with the very best of the classic fairy-tales from Disney. And yes, Maleficent, in all of her wicked glory, makes the most impressive fire-breathing dragon you're ever likely to see!
This Disney cartoon feature has the familiar-princess-in-distress theme of a lovely girl, kind fairies, a handsome prince, forbidding castles and an evil witch. A perceived slight by a king and queen enrages a sorceress who casts an evil spell on the child that will take effect on her sixteenth birthday. Only her prince charming's kiss can save the girl from an unhappy fate and the frightening Maleficent stops at nothing to locate the princess in order to bring her prophecy to fruition. There are several pitched battles between the prince and the fairies against the forces of evil that accelerates into an exciting combat at the finish. The picture is bathed in beautiful color and the music of Tchaikowsky's ballet serves as a wonderful musical accompaniment.
Simplest possible explanation of what cements Sleeping Beauty's place as an immortal classic: Maleficent.Sleeping Beauty was never one of my favorite Disney movies, my parents having lost the tape really early. Since maybe ten years I haven't seen the movie, but now, after seeing it again, I have to admit, it's a masterpiece. I don't understand why it was so berated on first release. Where the critics expecting Snow White? 'Cause this is no Snow White. It's much better.A long, long time ago, in a kingdom far, far away, King Stefan and the Queen have a daughter, Aurora, so-called because she brought sunshine to their lives. There is a great celebration, and the neighboring kingdom's Prince Phillip is betrothed to Aurora. The three Good Fairies, Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather, are invited. Flora and Fauna bestow gifts of beauty and song upon Aurora. Before Merryweather can cast her spell, the uninvited Maleficent--the Mistress of All Evil--arrives, furious at not being invited. She curses Aurora, predicting that at the age of sixteen the princess will prick her finger on the spindle of a spinning-wheel and die. Merryweather counteracts this by making Aurora go into a deep sleep were she ever to prick her finger, to be reawakened by true love's first kiss. To keep her safe, the fairies take her into the forest, no longer using magic, and calling Aurora Briar Rose. The princess knows nothing of her heritage, and meets no other humans, except for a man 'Once Upon A Dream'.One of the greatest things about the movie is the style. The contrast between characters and surroundings (except for Maleficent) is stark. The backgrounds and layouts are colorful, stylized, round and angular at the same time. The characters, however, aim for total realism, except for the minor ones, who are clearly cartoon characters. The animation is beautiful. The movements smooth, the artistry unbelievably high quality. If there was no other likable thing about the movie, the animation would go a long way to saving it.The story of Sleeping Beauty is, of course, set in stone. Despite everyone's complete familiarity with the fairy tale, the movie manages to enliven it and make it gripping, even though everyone has heard it a thousand times. A most definite improvement in the story is the scene in which Aurora pricks her finger. In the original the spinning-wheel was owned by an innocent old peasant, who just happened to own the last wheel in the land, unnoticed by the rest of the world. In the movie Maleficent hypnotizes Aurora, and commands her to prick her finger. In addition to the atmosphere of foreboding already present in the story, the movie adds genuine suspense, largely owing to the brilliant presence of the wicked fairy.The characterization is very different from other Disney movies in some ways, but very like others. Usually in Disney's princess movies, the princess herself is something of a cypher, a passive element. This is true for Sleeping Beauty (she has no control over the three basic actions in the movie). The prince usually has an even more minute part, although the story would be nothing without him. Not so this movie. Here Phillip is a much more active character, a hero who battles dragons and witches, who goes through all sorts of hazards. In Snow White all the unnamed prince does is show up and kiss our heroine, in Cinderella Charming risks nothing and is nothing but a prop. But the ultimate character is, of course, Maleficent. Supervised by Disney's women's animator-in-chief, Marc Davis, hers has to be one of the great performances in animation. She is brilliantly drawn, amazingly voiced, and the dragon she transforms into is not just a dragon: it is HER particular dragon (a method taken to greater lengths in The Sword in the Stone). She is magnificent. The three fairies are quarrelsome all right, but they are caricatures that convey particularly clearly their good-naturalness.Sleeping Beauty is one of those irreplaceable masterpieces. It is a magnificent retelling of a classic fairy tale, with no undue distortion of the source material. Come to think of it, the story EXISTS to be made into a movie; it's just perfect. And near-perfection is what Disney achieved.9.5/10
Quick......what was 'Sleeping Beauty's' name? Answer: Either 'Princess Aurora' or 'Rose,' depending on where she was.Most of you probably know that but I didn't, probably because I hadn't watched this movie since it came out about a half century ago! I was a little kid, and never did see this again on TV or VHS. I only saw it again because several high-definition DVD websites said this looked spectacular on Blu-Ray.How right they were; this looks incredible! I cannot believe how fantastic the artwork is, and sharp the picture comes through on this restored high-def disc. The colors and the amount of details in all the art are astounding. Many of the scenes had my jaw dropping in admiration. The story, frankly, is not anything that great for a man my age but the visuals are so fantastic that I enjoyed the experience.I also appreciated the 2.55:1 widescreen picture. If you've only seen this on formatted-to-TV 4:3, and love the movie, you owe it to yourself to see this version. You won't believe how good this 1959 film looks.
Everything about this film is beautiful. The characters, the music and the animation.The animation was lovely. It looks flat to some people, but to me it looks absolutely beautiful, and has a gorgeous stylistic look. The best scenes were actually the darker scenes, especially the climax, which is one of Disney's best. But I have to say the forest is one of the most beautifully animated forests in a Disney film. Sleeping Beauty mayn't have the strongest story development in a Disney movie, but neither the ballet or the fairytale have the best story development either, no matter how beautiful the film really is.The characters were unforgettable. Whilst Aurora was the weakest character, she was made into a beautiful woman with lots of grace, class and charm, who dreamed of falling in love, and Mary Costa's vocals were sublime. Phillip is also well done, but these two characters don't say much in comparison, I noticed, except Phillip has some great lines. The forest scene with the animals was charming, and you have to laugh at the three fairies when they tried to make the dress. The fairies added a huge amount to this film, as did Meleficent, who terrified me when I was younger. There was a long time when I was so scared of her and the part when she entices Aurora to the spinning wheel, that I refused to see the film for about two years.The music by Tchaikovsky was outstanding. He is a fantastic composer, one of my all time favourites. The music to the climax has been imitated by many Disneys but never as well. I recommend you see the ballet, which bears little resemblance to the film itself, but the music is a knockout, like Beethoven's Choral Symphony.In conclusion, an ambitious(being the most expensive Disney project) but beautiful film, that has captivated me since I was little, and I am 16 now. 10/10. Bethany Cox
'Sleeping Beauty' is definitely a classic among the Disney animated features.  It bears the distinction of being the first to be shot in 70mm widescreen format.  The score borrows much from Tchaikovsky's classic ballet based on the Brothers Grimm tale.  The art is beautiful, being inspired by medieval art.  And the characters are delightful, particularly the three Good Fairies, Flora, Fauna and Merryweather.  Malificient makes for a wonderful villainess, with awesome magical powers.  Even those who would not call this Disney's best animated feature should agree that it harkens back to the famed studio's golden age.  It's a classic that all ages can treasure!
Classic Disney fairy tale adaptation about a princess named Aurora who is cursed by an evil witch named Maleficent. Lovely in every way with memorable characters and scenes that have stood the test of time. The animation is beautiful and stylish with rich, vibrant colors. The voice actors all do wonderful work. If I had a complaint, it would be that the narrator is rather bland. Someone with a stronger voice would have been better. But it's a minor thing in a film that is so wonderful from start to finish. The Tchaikovsky music is amazing and the song 'Once Upon a Dream' is a real gem. I'm no film historian but it seems like, in many ways, this movie represents the end of an era for animated Disney films that began with Snow White in 1937. There would certainly be some great movies to come, even some classics, but they wouldn't have quite the same grand feeling and charming old-fashioned qualities of the films from this era.
My first experience with 'Sleeping Beauty' was at the end of my 2nd grade year, the film's magic simply blew my mind, the bell rung shortly after the christening part and we never could finish the film. Coincidentally, the same year, I saw the climactic fight with the dragon in a Disney TV's special yet the second act remained a total mystery and I never thought I missed much since I was already familiar with the best bits, including the incomparable Tchaikovsky's waltz theme of the same name. But after a series of missed opportunities, I finally watched Disney's 'Sleeping Beauty' all the way.Still, it wasn't that new an experience, I remember being mesmerized by the TV versions of the classic fairy-tale, I saw two when I was 9, and the story had no secret for me, especially because the two films where relatively faithful to Perrault's original book (in one of them, Aurora was actually named 'Briar Rose' and I thought it was just an artistic license). Speaking of the story, I thought it was surprisingly dark, projecting our deepest fears like being struck by a malevolent curse such as the spindle of the wheel, and living in the constant fear that it would be complete, not to mention the creepy vision of a whole town put in a comatose state for a whole century, a device that a child could easily assimilate to death.Although it deviates from the original material, 'Sleeping Beauty' magnificently renders the sinister atmosphere of the story and one of its strongest aspects relies on the depiction of magic through the eternal opposites: good and evil. Disney's animated movies have always provided the best art-form when it came to vehicle these fantastic elements and as a result, the animation is absolutely dazzling whether it induces fear of amazement. The three fairies are magnificently characterized thanks to the wise choice of reducing their number to three and making them physically different, and Maleficent has this mix of elegance and darkness that perfectly suits her status as a Disney villain. In fact, for a Disney film, the film gets strangely explicit by always referring to the antagonism between good and evil through the devilish incarnation of Maleficent, who's more than your usual Witch.And perhaps this is the main achievement of 'Sleeping Beauty', to exploit familiar archetypes from previous Disney classics, without recycling them. Maleficent is a class on her own and is never comparable to the Evil Queen from 'Snow White' and the three fairies are much more motherly and three-dimensional figures than the jolly Godmother from 'Cinderella'. 'Sleeping Beauty' goes even further by eschewing one of the dullest archetypes from the other films: the nameless and bland Prince. This time, Philip, to name him, becomes the first truly heroic Prince of Disney, the one who really struggled to get to Aurora and bless her with a true love kiss. Released in 1959, after several years of preparation and pre-production, anyone could tell Disney wanted to make a new movie out of familiar material.Now, there are two aspects in the film that certainly divide opinions. One being the small screen-presence of Aurora, which probably suffers from the fact that the Prince, the fairies, Maleficent and even the Kings are given more preeminent roles. For some viewers, Aurora is dull, passive or under-developed at best. The second is animation, the realism of the background, the magnificent way it renders some of the most beautiful medieval paintings, and make you look at the film as a new milestone in Disney's canon, some might find it too linear or geometrical, foreshadowing the evolution of Disney's animation to a more sketchy format, and regret the most rounded aspect of Disney's previous film, the one that Disney Renaissance would resurrect with 'The Little Mermaid'.Characters and animation either support or cancel one another. I, for one, thought that the animation was perfect for the film, that 'Sleeping Beauty' is a masterpiece on the animation level, even more impressive since the film was still hand-drawn and didn't rely on the Xerox process that would be used for 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians'. Known for being the first to be shot in Technirama process, the large scope of the film allowed the team to be more perfectionism in the depiction of backgrounds whether for castles or forests, multiplying by ten the delays of production. But for what a result! I can only envy those who saw the film in a large screen; no castle has even been more frightening than Maleficent's, conveying the Gothic atmosphere the story required. The same year than Ben-Hur, Disney proved to be capable of making blockbusters, technically speaking.And the drawing plays an interesting role, by canceling the eventual blandness of Aurora. She not only is the best-looking of all Disney princesses but her facial features also suggest a strongest and most modern personality, like a younger version of Lauren Bacall. Given the role she's supposed to have in the original story, the main players being the fairies, Maleficent and the Prince, her lack of screen-presence doesn't damage her characterization at all, hell, even her smile when she's waken up isn't the same ecstatic enthusiasm than Snow White but rather looks like a clever 'here you are' wink. The four roles are fairly distributed and the best thing it did was to spare us from too much cute little animals as time-fillers.If not as revolutionary as 'Snow White' or as popular as 'The Lion King', the film features three classic scenes, so-defining of what Disney stood for: the magic christening, the climactic good vs. bad battle, and naturally, the magnificent kiss. 'Sleeping Beauty' uses all the archetypes of the fairy-tales and Disney previous successes and the result is a classic masterpiece of Animation, certainly the most defining of Disney, since even the castle where Aurora lies in the highest tower became Walt Disney's all-time trademark.
I watched this when I was younger and I didn't like it. Why? There weren't enough cute, furry animals or catchy songs to hold my attention. The colours also looked faded and dull. I kept wondering why Aurora's hair looked a dirty blonde yet it was described as 'sunshine gold'. The characters seemed a little flat, and most of the dialogue went over my head.I re-watched this movie (as the 2 disc Platinum edition) nearly 18 years later and my opinion has completely changed. The animation, sound and colours have been restored to their former glory to when it was first shown in 1959. The previous editions on VHS and re-issues in the cinema were of the aged, dirty film with a deteriorating soundtrack. I felt short-changed; my opinion of the film was affected by watching the less than pristine version.I think 'Sleeping Beauty' as a whole appeals more to adults than children. The animation is top-notch and specifically styled to look like a medieval tapestry, and the dialogue is sophisticated and fluent. The plot a little more subtle than I remembered. Maleficent's soliloquy is bone-chillingly perfect. Her plan diabolical; she intends not to kill the Prince but to imprison him so after 100 years he will awaken his princess who has not aged (!) I can't imagine a crueler fate than to know that precious time afforded by love will be stolen from you. All too often Disney villains are painted with broad comical brush strokes and it is difficult to fear them. Here, Maleficent is truly evil; intent on destroying peoples' lives on just a whim; being snubbed at a party.This also the first time Disney gave the Prince a name. He is given subtleties never before afforded to his predecessors; warmth, humour, flirtatious and witty; 'Now, Father, this is the fourteenth century...' There are dark segments to this film that may not be appropriate for the very young, the thrilling final battle with the dragon may be too scary. In my opinion, it is one of the best sequences of good vs evil that has never been topped for sheer adrenaline (except maybe the end of 'The Little Mermaid').True, there are problems with the film. The titular character has very little to do and little screen time. The cute animals don't sit well with the sharp, angular patterns of the backgrounds. The fairies dominate the story and perhaps more time should have been given to the interaction between Aurora and Philip.The use of Tchaikovsky's score gives the movie a timeless quality but also a more subdued feel than the rousing scores of other Disney movies e.g. Aladdin, that certainly didn't appeal to me as a child.So if you didn't like this movie initially, I urge you to watch it again in its restored format. I felt I was watching it for the first time.
This film is fantastic! The animation, especially the background designs, was completely modern for its time, and really a bold choice for the normally conservative Disney. The take on the fairy tale is also interesting. The young characters are shown as independent people, who ardently refuse to submit to an arranged marriage. I also think this is the first Disney film where the 'prince' character has...well...character! Prince Eric is not the flat, undeveloped stereotypes that are found in Snow White, Cinderella, or even to a lesser degree in more modern films like The Little Mermaid. He has a mind of his own and figures prominently in the plot.The evil sorceress in the film is fantastic as well. Basically, I adore this movie! Go out and buy it today!!
This is another classic from Walt Disney, a story about a princess who was placed on a sleeping spell from a snubbed, vengeful witch, Maleficent, in which only a prince can break.This movie has beautiful animation work, rich in color and very vibrant. I loved the artwork design of the castle, which served as an inspiration of the Sleeping Beauty castles you see in Disney theme parks around the world. The characters are memorable, especially the three good fairies, Flora, Fauna and Merriweather, who will suspend reality with magic they use like making a cottage clean by itself and counterattacking Maleficent's wicked tricks. Maleficent, I think, is one of the more notorious, yet memorable Disney villains. Prince Phillip was one of the Disney princes that actually takes on a more active role in a movie, as opposed to the more obscure princes in Snow White and Cinderella. And, the King and Queen gave an emblematic representation of what royalty typically looks like: gold crowns with flowing garbs, headdresses and capes, sitting on tall thrones. The music is superb, an adaptation of the Sleeping Beauty Ballet from Peter Tchaikovsky. The Waltz sung by Princess Aurora is my favorite piece in the movie. And, the story is fast-paced with an exciting rescue-the-princess and sword-wielding climax.The only downsides I think exists in this movie is that Princess Aurora (the Sleeping Beauty) had too little screen time and too much focus was on the Three Fairies. Also, it is said in the story that the King and Queen wanted badly to have a child. So, when Princess Aurora was born, the joy of having a child was short-lived because Aurora was taken into hiding by the fairies to escape Maleficent's curse; therefore, it is like the King and Queen got a raw deal out of this. But, other than that, a very satisfying movie that remains one of my favorite Disney classics.Grade A-
''Sleeping Beauty ''is one of the classics and one of the most famous movies from Disney as well.The cute and little princess Aurora is going to be introduced to all people of the kingdom in a big party made in her celebration. Everybody is having fun and gives Aurora's presents. (including her future husband,Prince Phillip) Until Maleficent, the bad witch, comes up and angry because she was not invited to the princess'party curses Aurora: she will die on her 16th birthday, after touching a poisoned spinning wheel. Everybody stays in panic, but for Aurora's lucky, the three nice fairies Flora, Fauna & Merryweather gives her gifts for her future, and one of them is that the curse that Maleficent made was not eternal, and only will be when Aurora's prince gives her a kiss. Anyway, the Queen and the King prefer not to risk, and agree to send their daughter to live in the forest with the fairies, with the identity of Briar Rose. They all live without magic, and without Aurora knowing about her past, since the identity of her godmothers until the fact she is a princess. The years passed and Aurora is now 16. Everything was going well to deny the curse, but with Philiph and Aurora's meet in the woods and the fact that Aurora and the three fairies are being watched,makes the situation change and many risks starts to come.
The evil sorceress Maleficent places a curse on Princess Aurora after being slighted by the royal family. She will die by pricking her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel before her 16th birthday. The king puts his daughter in the care of three fairies who take her into hiding to keep the tragedy from occurring. Maleficent becomes obsessed with finding the girl and fulfilling her evil spell.I was pleasantly reminded of the dark elegance of Maleficent and the strong Gothic overtones presented in 'Sleeping Beauty.' They reminded me of the atmosphere found in the underrated 'The Black Cauldron' and 'Hunchback of Notre Dame.' Being a fan of horror movies, I was attracted to the last quarter of the film more so than the first three.
If there's one thing that separates the classic Disney era from it's modern efforts, then it was their ability to truly bring a fairytale to life. The moral and narrative simplicity of the fairytale formula is now portrayed somewhat cynically, with their black-and-white ethics and la-de-da princesses receiving a lampooning in the likes of Shrek (2001) and Enchanted (2007). Although this can make for clever and amusing viewing, it makes it easy to forget how beguiling these stories can be. Sleeping Beauty is one of Disney's finest, and a perfect example of how the make-believe world of witches, fairies, kings and princesses can truly enthral and fill a young heart with wonder.King Stefan and Queen Leah welcome the birth of their daughter, Princess Aurora (Mary Costa), and invite their subjects to pay homage at their castle. The baby is thrice blessed by the three good fairies, Flora (Verna Felton), Fauna (Barbara Jo Allen) and Merryweather (Barbara Luddy), until the evil sorceress Maleficent (Eleanor Audley) gate-crashes the party. Maleficent curses the princess and announces that on her sixteenth birthday, she will prick her finger on a spinning wheel and die. The curse is dented somewhat when Merryweather intercepts, meaning that Aurora will not die, but will fall into an eternal sleep unless she receives true love's kiss.Inspired by the Brothers Grimm's Little Briar Rose and The Sleeping Beauty by Charles Perrault, the film, under the directorial supervision of Clyde Geronimi, has some of the finest animation work ever put out by Disney. The last Disney film to use hand-inked cells, animators Marc Davis, Milt Kahl, Frank Thomas, Ollie Johnston, John Lounsbery, Wolfgang Reitherman and Eric Larson, create a beautiful world reminiscent of the colourful Medievals film that were so popular in the 1950's, when Technicolor was a-booming. The climax, which sees the horned demon Maleficent turn into a dragon, was revolutionary in it's day and is still unnervingly striking today. The romance between Aurora and her betrothed - the amusingly named Prince Phillip (Bill Shirley) - is rather unconvincing and wishy-washy, but it does little damage to a movie that is a delight from start to finish.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
I don't care for the Disney Corporation of today. They have badly tarnished their own intellectual properties and that of George Lucas. Sleeping Beauty is a product of Disney as it used to be, under the visionary leadership of Walt. It's a film for all dreamers, for all hopeless romantics, for all who would like fairy tales to be true. When Flora speaks the line 'Sword of Truth, fly swift and sure, that evil die and good endure', I get chills, and I buy into it completely. The animation is very good, if not quite up to the standard set by Disney's Pinocchio. 'Upon A Dream' is a wonderful song that makes excellent use of the classic Tchaikovsky ballet score. Highly recommended!
Not insulting Disney, this just does not seem like a Disney film. There are many scary scenes (which are likely to disturb anyone aged under 9 or so) and there are many scenes that will make much more sense to adults than to children. There are also many references to what life was like in the Medieval ages (not counting the fantasy scenes of course), including the fact that it was quite normal (or even a little late) for girls to marry when they are 16. In none of Disney's other films is there this kind of reference.Aside of these points, there is stunning Disney charm, animation, humour for just about everyone and this film also includes pieces from Tchaicovsky's ballet. The characters and plot of course also help make up this wonderful animated film. The only negative point is the fact that it strays quite far from the original fairy tale, but in some cases this is not really a bad thing.You may know the story already. A baby girl is born to a king and queen and three good fairies bless the child with a gift. Although - at first it is only two. Just as the third fairy is about to bless her gift, the bad fairy Malecifent gives the baby a bad gift, that she will die on her 16th birthday. The good fairy helps turn this around, but only in a little way...Recommended to anyone who likes the fairytale, the ballet or the princess stuff of 'Sleeping Beauty'. Enjoy! :-)
The 16th animated Disney classic is a fairy-tale but different from the other Disney classics because of its medieval artwork. It's not the fairy tale genre that makes this one of Disney's most distinguish Disney animated films, but its artwork. This artwork is stylish and obeys to high quality standards, not to mention that the sceneries and backgrounds are good in general.This is one of the Disney classics which took more time to be made and perhaps one of their most ambitious. In fact, maybe because of its medieval artwork, it spent about 6 or 7 years in production. This spent nearly the whole 1950 decade in production. A very long time, even for an animated film. Only 'The Black Cauldron' took as much time as this to be made, but we can't compare 'The Black Cauldron' to the undeniably superior 'Sleeping Beauty'.There is a curious fact that surrounds the movie's final scene (when Prince Phillip and Princess Aurora dance above the clouds): that 'trick' was actually tried in 'Cinderella', but they only managed to do it successfully in 'Sleeping Beauty'.As a movie, generally speaking it is pretty good, happy, pleasant, magic, romantic, sometimes dramatic and emotional, while classic humor is not forgotten either (there are many funny moments, actually). On the other hand, this movie is also extremely dark in some parts, although it doesn't go as far as 'The Black Cauldron' does when it comes to extreme darkness. Even if 'Sleeping Beauty' has its dark side, it isn't much darker than what we see in many other Disney animated films.Maleficent is the kind of villain I can't find a correct word to describe: an evil queen? A queen of darkness? An evil fairy? A witch? A sorceress? Whatever she is, she looks sinister, yet she isn't that scary considering her appearance. She's nowhere near as scary and chilly as the Horned King from 'The Black Cauldron'. Eleanor Audley, with that powerful voice, does a spectacular job as Maleficent's voice.Aurora (aka 'Briar Rose') is a gorgeous princess with an even more beautiful voice. She's also a wonderful singer. Mary Costa does beautifully her voice.Prince Phillip is one of the coolest and most charming Disney princes of all time. And one of the funniest too. His horse Samson is one of the coolest and funniest horses of all time. Prince Phillip is brilliantly voiced by Bill Shirley.The queen (Aurora's mother) appears very little during the whole movie (we only see her at the beginning and at the end). King Stephan is a great dude and King Hubert is quite a funny guy. An especially funny scene with them is when they are discussing about Phillip and Aurora and Hubert starts fighting with a fish as if it was a sword and they end up laughing of that. Both characters are greatly voiced by the respective actors.As for the 3 good fairies (Fauna, Flora and Merryweather), I'd say that my favorite is Merryweather. She is the funniest of the three. Also, I like the blue dress better than the pink one (although both colors fit well on the dress). But the blue is always prettier than the pink.The animals which Aurora meets in the forest are other charming characters. The funniest one is the owl. Speaking of animals, Maleficent's pet raven is an interesting character yet a bit annoying - what a snitch that thing is!As for the soundtrack, it is entirely beautiful but the best is in 'Once Upon a Dream' and the famous classical music 'Sleeping Beauty ballet' by Tchaikovsky.Just to finalize my review, this movie was very unsuccessful when it originally came out in 1959, almost bankrupting the Disney studio. But it won loyal fans through the years and reached a cult status. I guess you can say that time has been kind to it.
This film is a lot like its princess – sweet, beautiful to look at and listen to, has nothing particularly profound to say but is a lovely presence nonetheless.John Grant notes in The Encyclopedia of Walt Disney Characters that when it was released, the film disappointed critics expecting another Snow Whiter or Cinderella, as well as those hoping for something new. On the one hand, the films follow the same basic formula – a demure princess, an ineffectual prince, an elegant villainess, and bumbling troupe of supporting characters who end up saving the day. But things aren't quite the same. Aurora may be as innocent as Snow White but her blonde beauty suggests a Cinderella. Philip and Snow White's prince have the same approach to picking up girls, but Philip does more for his damsel than provide a well-timed kiss, and he acts a good deal more like a smug teenager than his predecessors. Maleficent (voiced by the same actress who voiced Cinderella's stepmother) might be described as the evil queen but with a sense of humor (albeit a sadistic one).So it didn't generate as much love as its predecessors. And how about now? Is it too sexist? Sure, a raging feminist could have a field day pointing out what's wrong with the film's weak-willed princess who perpetually dreams of romance. To stamp this film as 'sexist,' however, ignores that the central conflict is between women – older women, in fact! All the other characters are essentially pawns on the chess board where Maleficent and the three good fairies battle. It doesn't help matters, of course, that the three good fairies are so saccharine and grandmotherly. Up until about three-quarters through the film, the three sprites do not seem competent enough to bake a cake, let alone slay a dragon. But then there's Maleficent. Wow. She's so frightening as a gaunt sorceress that her magnificent transformation into a smiling, slithering dragon seems almost redundant. It's hard to be completely at ease at any point in the film, knowing that Maleficent might be hiding in the fireplace or in the cottage, watching and waiting. That she could be all this and still be such a magnetic, sexy character serves as justification enough for adults to watch and enjoy this film.There's a chance Sleeping Beauty will fade away as a kid's movie. Parents of the future might hide it away, not wanting their daughters to start floating around the house singing about the boys at their preschool. Children of the future might find it too scary, or maybe even too boring. Given the loud, fast-paced nature of modern kid's films, it's hard to imagine the scene where Aurora sings an aria as she strolls through the woods making the cut.So while fading away may be inevitable, I really hope that doesn't happen. Criticisms aside, this film is a masterpiece. The same impulse that compelled Disney to pair classical music with experimental animation in Fantasia seems to inspire Sleeping Beauty. The animation is unlike anything before or after – much more like a moving tapestry than a Saturday morning cartoon. Aurora and Maleficent may be the two most graceful women in animation, and they are truly pleasure to watch. They move as gracefully as ballet dancers, unsurprisingly since the music comes from Tchaikovsky's ballet. There are parts of Fantasia that just don't work, and it's nearly impossible to get a kid to sit through the whole thing. But here, it works. Perhaps because Sleeping Beauty is a coherent story rather than a series of sequences, although it has more than a few jokey or ostentatiously animated sequences that don't move the plot an inch. Mostly, it works because the animation and the music complement each other beautifully, the one making the other romantic or haunting as the story dictates.But what does this story really 'mean'? Again, nothing profound. Be kind. Be brave. Stamp out evil where you can. This is a Disney film, after all. But it's a lovely one, and in a culture where a forgettable cartoon film seems to be churned out every month, I applaud the effort to create a film that is at once a work of art and children's entertainment. So maybe one day it will be considered more of a feat of animation than a great film for the kids. I just hope it doesn't slip away entirely.
For some reason when I haven't seen 'Sleeping Beauty' in a while I start to remember it differently. I remember it as not being as good as some of the other Disney classics. Nothing could be further from the truth. 'Sleeping Beauty' is a very good movie. It's a lot of fun and very exciting. As I watched the final 'brawl for it all' tonight I was almost on the edge of my seat. The short running time is a big plus for this movie. I saw this movie in the theater on a re-release in the 1970s. I wish they would re-release it again.
When an evil witch places a curse on an infant princess that will cause her to fall into eternal sleep on her 16th birthday, her three fairy godmothers whisk her away to a life of normality and ignorance of her birthright. But can they stave off the curse when the 16th year of age arrives?It upped the ante in costing for Disney, also taking a decade to produce. The ambition was high as new techniques were being used such as rotoscoping, while the musical score is brilliantly devised from Tchaikovsky's Sleeping Beauty ballet. The story itself is a pure joy, based on Charles Perrault's ever enduring fairytale, it's awash with rich characters, led by the delightful three fairy godmothers - Flora - Fauna and Merryweather, all plumpy and sweet, while evil witch Maleficent is brilliantly produced, with a long pointy chin and devil horns on her head.There's a whole bunch of charming fun on show, as the three ladies bring the magic and potter around while gently ribbing each other, but it's with the drama where Sleeping Beauty most soars. The nightmare sequence luring Briar Rose (Princess Aurora) to the dreaded spinning wheel is unnerving, and the battle between Prince Phillip and Maleficent is exhilarating and shows the animators at their best. As for the colour? Spanking!Upon release it wasn't the roaring success Disney had hoped and planned for, but the decades since then have been very kind to Sleeping Beauty. For it's a magical film for children and adults to dreamily get lost in. 9/10
Sleeping Beauty is one of the more uneven Disney classics. Meaning that while some of its elements are frankly speaking revolutionary, culture-changing even, it has some other elements that are not really that good, not by Disney standards or even objectively.First the good stuff. The animation is quite frankly among the best Disney has produced. Ever. The characters move with fluid grace, the colours defy believe and help the whole movie leap from the screen and the attention to detail is amazing. But it's the backgrounds which make this one of the, if not the best movie Disney has ever released. The designs are fantastically medieval, the amount of detail they have put into every frame is unbelievable and it's no wonder it took so long to produce and cost so much that it really had no realistic hope of making its money back. But it was worth it. This is animation art in its finest form. Every single frame worthy of being framed and hanged on the wall.And then there's Maleficent, the finest Disney villain since the original Evil Queen from Snow White, and the first one to truly eclipse her. And she's still amazing. Eleanor Audley really gives her a threatening presence with her voice alone. She can be quietly menacing when she needs to be, but when she's truly enraged, she also has the lungs to back it up. Plus the character design, the storyline, they're all enough to cement her as one of the great ones.Then the bad stuff. Aurora and Prince Phillip are awful. Their character designs are great, but they have no screen time to build chemistry, their romance is one of the quickest even by Disney standards, their storyline is not interesting and as a whole they're a dreadful bore.Luckily the three fairymothers are a lot of fun. They're not on Maleficent's level, but they hold the movie together admirably.Sleeping Beauty is one of the best Disney movies. It's not the best because quite frankly I can't stand the romantic couple in it, but aside from that, it holds a dear place in my heart.
Sleeping Beauty, from 1959, was the final fairy tale produced by Walt Disney himself and remains one of his studio's most under-cherished works. Suffused with celestial metaphors and flights of visual fancy informed by pre-Renaissance art, the film's economical story is played for cosmic pathos and staged as pagan ritual. Stylist Eyvind Earle and background artist Frank Armitage were more or less allowed autonomy over the production and their freedom is felt in the limber, giddy stylings of the film, a far superior work than its earlier kissing cousin Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. Through the startlingly jagged animation and moving cutouts of the film, Earle and Armitage's crew of animators and painters evoke an expressionistic netherworld influenced by numerous Gothic, Persian and Medieval sources. The familiar story concerns a 16- year-old beauty, Princess Aurora, who dies when she pricks her finger on the needle of a spinning wheel and is subsequently revived by the Prince Charming she was destined to marry. In her attack against Aurora, the ferocious Maleficent (Eleanor Audley) appears to take on the fairy-tale cliché itself. After the story's three fairy godmothers bestow their cosmic gifts on the baby Aurora, Maleficent curses the child with death because she wasn't invited to her über-Christening. Her bitchery is of the highest order, seductive and titanic, and she is almost postmodern for her time. Just as the film's gorgeous backdrops suggest characters trapped in suspended animation, the many colorful balls of light that frequently circle their heads hauntingly convey the filmmakers' idea of fate and love locked in a cosmic struggle.
For some reason, there's a whole swathe of classic 40's and 50's Disney classics I've not yet seen, including 'Cinderella', 'Pinocchio', 'Dumbo', 'Bambi', '101 Dalmations', 'The Lady & The Tramp' and up until now, this lovely, warming re-telling of the classic 'love conquers all' fairy tale.It's a long time since I've sat so rapt by a movie, an animated one at that, my eyes and ears never leaving the screen, even knowing as we all do, how the story ends. Delightfully old-fashioned, no doubt reflecting the solid family values of Eisenhower's late 50's America, I'll take 'Sleeping Beauty''s wide-eyed innocence to today's knowing, post-modern cynicism and I speak as a fan of the whole 'Shrek' franchise! Only once did I detect the encroachment of the modern, with references to 'this is the fourteenth century, you know!', but this was only the mildest of jarrings if I'm being honest.The animation is delightful, particularly the backgrounds and there are some particularly eye-catching segments, two I particularly liked being the three good fairies' transformation into pixie-size and one of Malificent's entrances where she's reduced to a set of eye-slits and green light.Tchaikovsky's orchestral music is lovely, although some of the songs are a little starchy plus there's a bit too much of the young lovers' royal fathers if I'm carping, but with its gentle humour ('make it pink, make it blue') and sheer Disney magic firmly in place, this delightful movie will waft all but the coldest heart to a lovely place long ago and far away.
When I was a little kid, there was one movie I loved more than any other: Sleeping Beuaty. I don't remember when I first saw it, but I do remember that I loved it beyond all reason. In fact I used to bring it up so much it drove my family crazy. Today I'm not so obsessed with it, but 'Sleeping Beuaty' still holds a special place in my heart.There are several reasons as to why I love this film. One is the animation. The whole picture is practically a medieval tapestry come to life. Another reason is the music; Thcovsky's score is truly a marvel to listen to. And the last reason is *possible spoiler* the film's villain:Maleficent! Once you see this Sorceress in action you will truly appreciate a well done villain. For these reasons and more, 'Sleeping Beuaty' is a masterpiece that you will want to add to you're collection.
This movie gets 10 points on it's look alone. It is stunning to watch, especially in the widescreen format. The amount of detail and effort that went into it blows my mind. Being an art student, I appreciate this kind of work tremendously. The music is also exquisite, taken from the famous ballet.The story is good enough- I love the feisty Merriweather, and it has my favorite prince- Phillip. He was the first Disney prince to actually have any development or really do something. Another thing is this movie is not goofy at all! Yes, it has some cutesy forest creatures, but they don't talk and they aren't overly cartooney. Instead, there is some truly funny dialogue and situational comedy that doesn't pander to a 5 year old sensibility. Besides, we have Maleficent, an amazing, dark, seductive villain. She is never weak or unintimidating. I would be terrified to go against her.Overall, one of my favorite Disney films alongside Hunchback and Beauty and the Beast. The most beautiful piece of animation ever- hands down.Quote of the film:You poor simple fools. Thinking you could defeat me, ME! The Mistress of All Evil!
Sleeping Beauty (1959) is not strong on story, I will admit. It embellishes little on top of the fairy tale and outside of the fairies and Maleficent (truly one of the greatest villains in classic film) none of the characters manage to rise above being mere ciphers. Still, this is among the greatest of Disney films for its sheer visual gorgeousness.The animation is exquisite to say the least. The backgrounds, though they have their detractors like animation historian Michael Barrier, fit the more angular, jewel-colored characters in my opinion. They look so good on their own that you would not mind framing them on a wall at home. Tchaikovsky's music from the ballet Sleeping Beauty is beautifully adapted into the musical numbers and background scoring.Not for people looking for emotional depth, but for those who aren't adverse to style over substance films, this is excellent stuff. It's an epic masterpiece.
Walt Disney - whether as cartoonist, filmmaker, impresario, or business mogul - was so innovative in so many ways that some of his more distinctive innovations tend to get lost in the shuffle. One important way in which he was a pioneer was the introduction of European expressionistic film techniques to American family audiences. This truth is rarely acknowledged, but it had enormous consequences for popular culture. While the expressionist style had been employed by American filmmakers before, Disney was the first to fuse that aesthetic with the bubblegum realm in which he dealt - the realm of fairy tales, caricatures, and slapstick. This marriage of high and low cultural forms would pave the way for many filmmakers in the years ahead, the most obvious example probably being Tim Burton (who started out, appropriately enough, as a Disney animator). And perhaps no animated feature that Walt oversaw between the 1930s and his death in 1966 exemplifies this style as superbly as SLEEPING BEAUTY.Even while watching this as a child, I readily grasped that SLEEPING BEAUTY was of a breed quite different from most of what Disney had created either before or since. Perhaps most obviously, the animation is about as exquisite as one could hope from a movie made in the days before computer technology. Unlike the forest in SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS, for example, the forest in this film looks real. There is some depth to it, as well as a juxtaposition of light and shade. It is the kind of forest that seems to harbor secrets - a place where you would not be at all shocked to stumble upon a lonely cottage or see the mysterious flickering of fluorescent lights in the night.Even more profound, however, is the film's provocative thematic language. Though the story itself - the rescue of a princess from the forces of evil by a swashbuckling prince and his fairy allies - is starkly simple, the setting is finely textured both psychologically and culturally. Prior to the 1990s, this was probably Disney's most morally mature work; evil here is not some freakish or even alien phenomenon, but something disturbingly ordinary that seems to stalk the characters through every moment of their lives. The Gothic citadel of the wicked sprite Maleficent, from its perch atop Forbidden Mountain, looms over the countryside as a permanent and highly visible threat. When night falls, the heroic characters scuttle fearfully through the dusky shadows that extend over the land; it can be difficult to tell friend from foe. When the naive Prince Philip knocks on the door of Aurora's cottage and hears a sweet female voice greeting him, he has no way of knowing that a mob of batlike demons is about to fall upon him.SLEEPING BEAUTY holds the rare distinction of being both universalist and groundbreaking. To a child, everything is immediately recognizable: the forest, the castle, Maleficent's lair. But Disney goes even further, imbuing each locale with an individual and wholly organic character that nonetheless collectively constitutes a thematic whole. It is hard to put a name to such a luscious style (medieval Gothic expressionist?); but the nooks and crannies would eventually find their way into other Disney films (most notably THE SWORD IN THE STONE) and then into other multimedia entertainments. Perhaps a little ironically, Disney was - whether consciously or not - drawing upon idioms that existed in 1950s culture but had yet to register on the mass-media radar. Most obviously, his knack for rendering rich landscapes and evoking themes that united pagan fantasy with Christian morality owed much to the mythology created by J. R. R. Tolkien of THE LORD OF THE RINGS fame. (It is difficult not to liken Forbidden Mountain to Mount Doom, where the climax of THE RETURN OF THE KING takes place.) Baby-boomers who might have seen SLEEPING BEAUTY as children would almost surely have noticed its motifs retooled in the 1960s paperback editions of Tolkien's books, and later in the fairy-tale rock of such 1970s musical groups as Led Zeppelin, Rainbow, and Heart.And speaking of music, there is only one instance in which the ballets of Tchaikovsky were more perfectly realized in cinematic form: Disney's other expressionist masterpiece, FANTASIA. Tchaikovsky's composing style is ideal for the staging of fairy tales: more than any other composer of the nineteenth century, he possessed a talent for writing music that called to mind such rarefied notions and images that it seemed almost to be otherworldly. (Igor Stravinsky, whose RITE OF SPRING was also memorably mounted in a sequence in FANTASIA, is another such composer.) Some traditionalists were appalled by the interweaving of original lyrics with Tchaikovsky's immortal music in SLEEPING BEAUTY; but considering that the lyrics fit the music perfectly, I didn't mind at all.SLEEPING BEAUTY takes place in a Manichean world of extremes, where the eternal questions of existence must be forcefully answered and where the villain must not be merely defeated but destroyed. And it is one of the few Disney films to acknowledge a world beyond: 'Now you will deal with me....and all the powers of HELL!' But if there is a Hell, there must be a Heaven: Aurora and Philip do live 'happily ever after,' but not without a period of trial where it must be decided whether 'evil die and good endure.'
Sleeping Beauty is arguably the best Disney Film, ever. It for me comes joint first with Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1936) and heres why.Apart from the amazing scenery and beautiful bewitching score, like all of Disney films, its the voices of the actors that made the characters come alive. Maleficent (voiced by Elanor Audley) was terrifying. Everywhere on the internet this is said. She wins online competitions all the time for being the most frightening, and she is. In fact, so scary at times (much more when I was small) that I would simply have to watch her, like I was scared yet had to see what happened. That's powerful for an animated film.Sleeping Beauty is among the best animated films around, Pixar have more funny one liners and great graphics, but wheres the magic?
The pinnacle and crown of Disney. The decade-long production of the film is absolutely visible. Animation is stunning, soundtrack as well. It's Tchaikovsky after all, so it's masterpiece in masterpiece. Fairies are super adorable, Aurora is iconic, and oh... Maleficent. One of the greatest villain in all cinema. Everything about this movie SCREAMS classic and everything about it is elegant. Also, it has so many serious moments that it could easily be a 50s Hollywood movie. All time favourite.
There are some classic movies that you get to know so well, that eventually you think you can just put it on as background noise while you do other stuff, but if you happen to look up at the screen for one moment, you are completely captivated and kept from looking away until the credits have rolled. Walt Disney's Sleeping Beauty is one of those movies. This animated production is that rare, perfect alignment of masters of their crafts, like Marc Davis, directing animator of both the film's protagonist and antagonist, and painter Eyvind Earle who served here as production designer, among many other artists, that creates something wonderfully unlike anything else. When it was decided to do Sleeping Beauty, the company knew they would have to push the artistry further than they ever had before to purposefully make the film stand out from everything that had ever come before it. The story's medieval setting perfectly caters to this with Gothic architecture, patterned tapestries, sculpted box trees and other hyper detailed background elements. To match, Disney ditched the soft and round and inviting characters that they usually portray for character designs that are more jagged and angular, strong with deep straight and vertical lines. The detail of the film really is just staggering. Add to that the fact that this was all done in Super Technirama 70 means not only more detailed art, but physically larger portions of art needed to be created to fill the film's frame, and every single frame from this film could be a framed painting hanging in a museum all on its own.Just as your eyes finally settle from all the detail and you think the movie couldn't be any more perfect, it happens. A blustery wind and a flash of lightening introduces you to the most iconic villain in all of the Disney stable. If anyone can crash a party and completely steal a show, it is Maleficent, which is a feat from a character with very little action. She's a speech giver, which means her captivation comes completely from her design, her slight movements, her voice, and her overall demanding presence. She can stand completely still and yet you will never lose her within the intricacies of the settings around her because you will never even take your eyes off of her. A spell has truly been cast, and while our princess has the least amount of lines for any human title character in a Disney animated movie, Maleficent more than fills the stage, making the movie really all about her.Other characters, like the film's hero Prince Phillip, are also more well rounded than the archetype had been in previous Disney films, and he would have to be to even enter into such a dark and threatening climatic battle. This Dark Ages atmosphere of Sleeping Beauty is spurned on by its classical score, a brilliant arrangement by George Bruns of the original music from the Sleeping Beauty ballet composed by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky. The idea to take this well known music and reset it to the events of the movie adds weight and seriousness, as well as an heir of familiarity. It also does well to heighten certain moments in the film to truly chilling and mesmerizing states.It's a wonder that the film was a failure upon its initial release. The increase to its art and production meant that it was also Disney's most expensive animated film to date, and unfortunately could not make its money back at the box office, resulting in quite a change in style at the studio. The company's next release would be the scratchily designed 101 Dalmatians, with Sleeping Beauty ending the era of the lush and overly romantic Disney animated film. It has since gained both its money back and popularity, though, considered by many to be one of Disney's crowning achievements. As for me, I am perfectly comfortable in going further than that to call Sleeping Beauty the best animated film of all time.
The 1950's were tumultuous years for the Walt Disney Company. Cinderella was a huge hit when it was released in 1950 and was so profitable for the company that they were able to release a string of classic features and were also able to create Disneyland, which opened in 1955. Due to the fact that Walt Disney had a lot of things on his mind during the second half of the 1950's, he wasn't involved as much in the production of Sleeping Beauty as he was in the earlier Disney classics. It took a decade to finish what would be the last classic of Disney's Golden Era. Sleeping Beauty was known as the most expensive animated feature of all time when it was released in 1959. Unfortunately, Sleeping Beauty did not do well at the Box Office and received mixed reviews from critics upon its release.Based on the fairytale by The Brothers Grimm 'Little Briar Rose', Sleeping Beauty is a medieval story about princess Aurora (voiced by Mary Costa), who gets cursed by the evil Maleficent (voiced by Eleanor Audley). Before the sun sets on her 16th birthday, Aurora will prick her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel and die. The fairy Merrywheater uses her blessing for the princess to change the curse. Instead of dying, Aurora will fall asleep and can only awake by true love's first kiss. Aurora grows up as Briar Rose with the three fairies; Flora, Fauna and Merrywheater in order to guarantee her safety from the evil Maleficent. She doesn't know that she's a princess, until the day of the 16th birthday, after she's met Prince Philip, without being aware he's a prince. When she returns to the cottage where she and the fairies live, she tells them about the prince, but the fairies have to tell her she can't see the boy anymore, because she's Princess Aurora. She needs to return to the castle of her parents. Aurora gets tricked by Maleficent and touches the spindle of a spinning wheel. The fairies cast a spell on all the inhabitants of the kingdom to make sure they are all asleep. Maleficent kidnaps Prince Philip, who was attempting to pay Briar Rose a visit in the cottage. The fairies manage to help Philip escape from Maleficent, but Maleficent attempts to stop him from reaching Aurora. She turns into a dragon, but Philip manages to stab her in the heart with a sword. Maleficent dies and Philip kisses Aurora, so she wakes up and they marry.Sleeping Beauty may not be the best Disney Classic of all time, but it's one of my personal favorites. The animation is as good as it has ever been in any of the Disney films. The costs were high, but the result is mind-blowing. The music is really good and works perfectly well within the theme of the film. The main characters aren't very interesting, especially Briar Rose (Aurora). She only gets about 20 minutes of screen time, which is strange for a main character. That's definitely a flaw. On top of that, she isn't very interesting. Her singing voice is boring, which is evident in the long scene where she meets Prince Philip (voiced by Bill Shirley). This scene is one of the weakest moments in Sleeping Beauty. Aside from that scene, Aurora doesn't bother me that much, though. The other characters are far more interesting. Maleficent is a fantastic villain. She's evil and malicious. That's what a villain is supposed to be. Her design is perfect as well. She looks evil, but beautiful at the same time. There's always a mysterious aura surrounding her. Eleanor Audley also voiced 'Lady Tremaine' in Cinderella, another great Disney villain. Her voice work for Maleficent works perfectly. Philip is a lot better developed than most of the Disney princes, but in the final part of the film, where he escapes from Maleficent and awakes Aurora, he doesn't say a word which feels a little odd. The two kings, Hubert (Philip's father) and Stefan (Aurora's father) are pretty funny and share a good deal of chemistry. Their scenes might be filler since they don't add much to the plot, but I do enjoy them so I never had a problem with them. The three fairies are great characters. They all have different personalities. I especially like Merrywheater, who's goodhearted but can also lose her temper. The fairies really add up to the overall quality of the film. With the exception of the long scene where Aurora meets Philip for the first time, everything in Sleeping Beauty works for me. The animation alone would be worthy of a view, because it's simply perfect and will never be topped. Sleeping Beauty is the culmination of Disney's Golden Era and can be called a masterpiece.
As a kid this was among my top favorite Disney movies! So many things in there were amazing while others didn't quite work well.The art is amazing! It's not like anything Disney ever did before. It looks like Medieval tapestry and it's just brilliant. When I look at the hall of the king, the courts, or the forest I keep thinking that I'm seeing actual artwork and not just moving cartoon characters from pencil sketches. I'm serious when I say the background pictures ought to be in a museum one day; they're just that good!The music, I love it! They're catchy, memorable, and beautiful. When I say 'catchy' I don't mean that they have a beat from rock 'n roll or anything like that, in fact nothing in the movie is modern related, it's all a Medieval setting. And in comparison to recent Disney movies, that says a lot! I haven't seen the original ballet, but I've heard that this is where the music came from or is based off of. I still sing Once Upon a Dream a lot, which is still one of my favorite songs. The characters (most of them) are just memorable. The fairies are my favorites. In fact I compare them to my two sisters and I because of their personalities matching ours (older: leader-like, middle: gentle and kind, youngest: feisty and defensive). Fauna is still my favorite fairy mostly because she and I have so much in common, including that we like green and are gentle. Maleficent is a great villainess! I won't falter that. She's just a great sorceress and sometimes it can be hard to tell if she'll take bad news well or furiously and how extreme she'll react. The fact that she can also turn into a dragon is scary! Her magic is also scary. If you get on her wrong side, then she could kill you off. How frightening is that?The main flaw I have with the movie are the main characters. I'll start with Prince Philip. Before The Little Mermaid, Disney seemed to stereotype guys in a Disney Princess movie to just be the bold, singing, say nothing hero. After about the second half of the movie he says nothing. All he does is play the dashing hero with the sword, and don't get me wrong, the fight scene is intense and amazing, but wouldn't you want to hear him say something after 30 minutes of him talking in the middle of the film? Now we get the Princess herself, Aurora. She was my favorite princess, but the problem was the story is called Sleeping Beauty and we see less of her ironically (not counting when she's asleep) and more of the fairies. Shouldn't this be renamed The Three Fairies? I like her, but she should have been the focus of the movie rather than the fairies, the kings, and other side characters.I still love this film. It has it's flaws, but most of the time it is a colossal epic and worth watching.
I haven't seen this movie since I was kid. A random pic I've found on the net from the movie though reminded me of it and I was curious how I'll enjoy it after so many years passed so I got a copy of it and sit down to watch it. What I had to realize is that not only I enjoy it as much as I did back then but I'm actually enjoying it even more. The movies biggest advantage is simply this: It's unbelievably gorgeous!The music, the backgrounds, the colors, the character animation, everything. Its as if every single scene in this movie was created with the explicit purpose to be as aesthetically pleasing as possible. Its art style I think is very special. Instead of the cartoonish look they went for realism. Upon the extremely detailed backgrounds we get extremely detailed characters who(especially Aurora and Malificent) make even the otherwise impressive looking characters of other Disney movies look like Powerpuff Girls. On the other hand the movie is also stylized to resemble medieval art which gives the movie a very unique atmosphere I think. The medieval style isn't only applicable to the art however. The songs and even some of the dialog I think were written in a way to make you feel as if you were listening to some kind of bardic story told through music and poetic language rather than watching a movie.On top of this the movie also has a very unique dreamlike quality. Its kinda hard to explain but this is what really made me fall in love with it(twice now). I'll try to explain it: On one hand they went for realism but they also made these surreal magical effects produced by the four fairies sorcery( or three fairies and one witch, I was never quite sure). Now the thing is that the transition from realistic to surreal is very subtle and the two elements end up bleeding together producing the dreamlike atmosphere. This is also true with the light and dark duality. The good fairies and Aurora represent good, light, joy, innocence and things like that with their design, colors, sound effects, voices and magical effects while Malificent is representing dark, dread, sorrow, violence and you know all the dark stuff again with her design, colors, sound effects, voice, and magical effects. And the thing is that all of this is bleeding and mixing together too so we not only have a dreamlike movie but also a bittersweet and dreamlike movie which resembles a bardic tale with musical and poetic elements stylized to resemble medieval art. All that in a single movie!Now here is the part where I'd talk about the music but IMO thats kinda unnecessary. Its Tchaikovsky. Enjoy it. Paired with these visuals that's the only thing you can do. I really like the songs too again partly because they feel right for the setting. My favorites are 'I wonder' and 'Once upon a dream' because I think Auroras/Marys heavenly voice is very hard to top. I really wish they gave her more songs.Now I read some opinions about it that criticizes things like characters and story. No. Simply no. This movie isn't about that! If you try to logic your way through it you are completely missing the point. What this movie tries to do is retelling one of the most basic fantasy stories you can think of using its impressive audiovisual tools and symbolism. It doesn't try to make you think it tries to make you feel. You know like pieces of art used to do. Odyssey or Hamlet or the picture about a naked woman standing on a giant seashell while being surrounded by flying humanoids don't make any sense either if you try to think about them too hard. Does this mean that they are worthless?So my advice is to try to appreciate this movie for what it is. Nothing is perfect but as far as animated movies go I think this one is the closest to it. So I hereby crown Sleeping Beauty as the Queen of Animated Movies with a perfect 10/10 score! You think its too high? Show me better!
Everyone knows the classic fairy tale of SLEEPING BEAUTY. A beautiful princess is cursed to a long sleep by a wicked fairy, and can only be awakened by the kiss of true love. Luckily, a prince comes, kisses her, and lives happily ever after.This is, without a doubt, one of the best films ever put out by Disney. Every time I watch it, I am bowled over by the film's artistry. The film was the first animated film to be photographed in 70mm, and it was well worth it. Evyind Earle's legendary background styling is quite magnificent, and makes good use of the widescreen. The characters are wonderful, particularly the three good fairies who try to rescue Princess Aurora, and the self-proclaimed 'Mistress of All Evil,' Maleficent, brought chillingly to life by Eleanor Audley (who previously portrayed Cinderella's stepmother for Disney). The highlight of the film, for me, is the background music, adapted from the famous ballet of the same name by Tchaikovsky. This is easily Disney's best score, an exquisite piece of work. The quality of the recording is so crystal clear, it sounds like it was recorded yesterday, giving the orchestra a pure, lush sound. Some wonderful lyrical songs appear, enhanced by excellent choral work and the voices of Mary Costa and Bill Shirley as the Princess Aurora and Prince Phillip. I could go on and on about this movie. HIGHLY (and I do mean highly) Recommended. 10/10.
I'm sure I've seen this film before but for the life of me I cannot remember when. Perhaps I saw it when I was very young and not since but it is equally like that my 'memory' of it has just been created by cultural reference points, clips and a general knowledge that it exists. Either way when I sat to watch this the other day as a man in his mid-30's it did very much feel like I was coming to the total film for the first time and I was quite surprised by how simply it engaged and entertained me.The plot is simple and will be known to all and within this telling we do pretty much go from one bit to the next with little in the way of extrapolation or development – a potential problem for older viewers looking to get into it, but it still manages to work. A big part of this is the sense of fairy tale that it delivers, because it puts you in a frame of mind suitable for this. The 'opening on a shot of a book' start to this film has been done since many times so it is easy to overlook how effective it can be, but here it works very well and the whole film captures the feel that this opening is suggesting. The telling is lightly comic but avoids cynicism or cruel humour and instead goes for a light touch; although I do love the edge that modern cynicism gives to some films, I will concede that it was quite refreshing to have a film free of it. The broad strokes of a fairy tale are here – the good fairies are non-threatening and comic while the evil fairy is tall, lean, strict and menacing; the prince is handsome, the princess stunning etc and it does feel like being read to as a child because it is simple yet vivid in the way it is told.It is easy (and tempting) to look at the film with a cynical modern eye and criticise it for its presentation of beauty and its gender politics but, while I do believe that things like this film and Barbie and others had a major role in shaping the view of beauty, it is not a thought that occurred to me once while watching the film. Instead it charmed me to its agenda, not my own and I would suggest anyone watching this and muttering their way through it has simply not come with an open mind. The voice work perhaps lacks the character of modern animated films, but all are good in their various roles – in particular the evil fairy is strong in her presence.Overall Sleeping Beauty is considered a classic and it is so for good reason – because it is. It is the type of film that parents will want their children to see because it is simple, engaging, well presented, beautiful to look at and tells a story that has danger and evil in it while also showing the power of love and that good will always prevail. Of course this is not true – but this is a fairy tale and it takes you with it while you watch. It says something that over 50 years after this was made that a audience of all ages can sit to watch this and all come away loving it. A delight.
This is a film that was made for a big finale. And Walt Disney didn't disappoint, for this was the last fairy-tale film he supervised before the great entertainer passed in 1966. Sleeping Beauty is a film filled with captivating animation, beautiful music, and loving characters.The film starts off with the revealing of the princess Aurora and how the kingdom loved her and even the three good fairies Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather loved the young princess. However as the fairies were giving their gifts to the princess the powerful and evil Maleficent arrives. Angry at the fact that she was not wanted at the celebration she curses the young princess to prick her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel and die. However with the final gift the curse is altered so that she will not die but just sleep until her true loves kiss breaks the curse.This story is filled with romance, adventure, sorrow, and even laughter. It is this movie where we meet who is probably the most devious and powerful of the Disney villains. Maleficent is scary, powerful, and is such a dark character you wouldn't believe this is actual Disney animation. But I think that's the best part of the film. Not a single thing is to childish to where you can't enjoy it. We find a world filled with enchanting characters, some of the most realistic animation I have ever seen, and a villain that makes all other Disney villains look like grunts. This is definitely one of the best animated films ever made.
Sleeping Beauty was my first ever Disney film, I saw it when I was 4 years old, I loved it and still do! The songs are simply gold! 'Once Upon A Dream', sorry, but it's just one of the best songs ever made, disagree or not! 'I Wonder' is really nice too. Mary Costa has an incredible voice! The design and animation is great too! I loved how they animated Maleficent as a dragon! Outstanding! So I give it 9/10, because even though it's amazing, I wanted to see more of Auroura. But still, it's truly worth watching!So, watch Sleeping Beauty! It's pure!
'Sleeping Beauty' is one of Disney's best movies as well as one of their most beautiful. The animation is stunning, the song 'Once Apon A Dream' is gorgeous and the voice acting is superb.The Story: Aurora is the beautiful daughter of a king and queen. On the day of her birth, three good fairies (Flora, Fauna and Merryweather) come to bless her with beauty and song, but along comes bad fairy Maleficent (who was voted #1 of Disney's top 30 Villains), puts a curse on Aurora that she'll die on her 16th birthday when she pricks her finger on a spinning wheel. Merryweather counters the curse that, instead of dying, Aurora will simply sleep until true love's first kiss breaks the spell. That is, her fiancé Prince Phillip has to kiss her. The fairies end up fostering Aurora, much to the grief of the king and queen, for protection and change her name to Briar Rose, again for protection. However, the curse takes place on Aurora/Briar Rose's 16th birthday. The fairies put everyone else in the kingdom to sleep and free Phillip after Maleficent holds him prisoner. Now Phillip has to play the hero and save the day with the help of the fairies.I highly recommend this movie, especially if you want some of Disney's classic gold, much unlike the CGI that's being made nowadays. It's another childhood favourite and both kids and adults will fall under the spell of the movies audacious narrative style, animation, songs and humour.
This film is another Disney masterpiece, and I really enjoyed it. I've always love fairy tales and even as an adult, I still love them. 'Sleeping Beauty' is one of my favorite fairy tales from Charles Perrault, along with 'Cinderella' and 'Puss n' Boots.'I'd love the scenery, it's like stepping through a magic tapestry and going back in time to the Middle Ages. I'd also love the color-styling of Eyvind Earle, and this film was the reason Eyvind Earle became one of my favorite artists. This film has an excellent musical soundtrack with additional music from Peter Tchaikovsky's 'Sleeping Beauty' ballet; I have the whole score on records. This film has a top-notch voice acting like : · Mary Costa...Princess Aurora/Briar Rose, · Bill Shirley...Prince Phillip, · Eleanor Audley...Maleficent, · Barbara Luddy...Merryweather, the Blue Fairy, and... · Bill Thompson...King Hubert (Philip's Dad.So watching this movie is definitely worth watching; I give Sleeping Beauty two big thumbs up!
Sleeping Beauty remains a Disney classic, even 30 years after I first saw it. Walt's method of storytelling is unmatched, even today. Combine this with the beautiful melody of Tchaikovsky's waltz, re-arranged to make 'Once Upon a Dream', and the sinister character of Maleficent, who in both human and dragon form casts a terrifying presence.It begins when the Princess Aurora is born to King Stefan & his wife. The whole kingdom, along with 3 good fairies - Flora, Fauna & Merryweather - come to the castle to bestow gifts on the child. However, the evil sorceress Maleficent also makes an appearance, and Merryweather's temper gets the better of her. She makes a rude statement that incites the sorceress to put a horrible curse on Aurora; that by the end of her 16th birthday, she will touch her finger to a poisoned spinning wheel - and DIE! Merryweather tries to undo the damage by altering the curse so that Aurora will instead be confined to an ageless sleep to be broken by love's 1st kiss. Wisely, however, the king orders that all spinning wheels in the kingdom be burned as a precaution, and the 3 fairies take Aurora to their cottage in the woods - away from Maleficent's spies - and raise her as their own child, named Briar Rose. On her 16th birthday Rose meets Prince Phillip - the son of a neighboring king whose own kingdom will soon unite with King Stefan's. When the 3 fairies get careless with their wands, Maleficent finds out Aurora's location and tricks her into touching a spinning wheel - and her evil prophecy is fulfilled! The sorceress then sets a trap in the cottage, and her army of brutes overpowers the Prince and takes him to Maleficent's castle on the Forbidden Mountain. The 3 fairies, upon discovering Phillip has been kidnapped, go to the Forbidden Mountain and set the Prince free. But it isn't long before they are spotted, and Maleficent's army of brutes attacks with arrows, rocks & boiling oil. The enraged Maleficent then directs her evil spells at the fleeing Prince - sending up a forest of thorns as thick as weeds to surround King Stefan's castle. When the Prince gets through, she lands on the road in front of him, blocking his path. Then comes one of the most terrifying scenes in Disney film - Maleficent turns herself into a massive, frightening dragon! She quickly drives Phillip back through the forest, and forces him onto a towering cliff, with no way out but down - into a raging pit of flame! The Prince then loses his shield with a blow from Maleficent's fiery breath. Will the Prince's bravery be enough to overcome Maleficent's evil powers?This is one of the more intense of the Disney films made in the classic age of Disney movies. In my view the artwork is far superior to the digital images of today, especially considering the painstaking effort that went into making them.9/10
Disney heads back to the drawing board (with cels, of course) in the 1959 animated film 'Sleeping Beauty,' which is a fairy tale of a movie about a princess who was fallen asleep from a sleeping apple, and then Prince Charming comes up and wakes her up with a big, big kiss!!!!! (Note: even though everyone knows this story, I classified this as a 'spoiler' type review just to be safe.)What I like about this movie: I can't remember if I had seen this in whole; this played on ABC at around the same time the DVD came out here in the States. I've only seen the end part of it; that had the most important part (the kiss) and I thought it was good!!!!!Remember, this movie is on DVD (look very, very hard for it), and notice that this movie is nothing like it was a long time ago, because a whole lot of elbow grease was put into restoring the movie from start to finish, making it seem even better!!!!!'Sleeping Beauty' - the movie guaranteed 'not' to fall asleep to!!!!!10/10
I was born 5 years after the film was released.Never got to see it in a theater, even through rereleases.So, only on television & video have I experienced the film.It is beautiful!! And, Maleficent is my favorite Disney villain!! It is a classic film, not at the very top of my favorite Disney films, but close.Course, I notice a different in the colors in the film when watching the DVD on a regular DVD player & my computers DVD drive. Flora's dress FINALLY looks pink.The 9 old men of animation out did themselves with with the beauty of the film & how perfect the characters & scenery were done.Music good, not great. No songs that you can not get out of your head because they are so good.Stands the test of time.To get this positive comment to post I am inputting my comments from Snow White below:http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0029583/usercomments-103What can you say about this film that has not been said already.The original. A true classic film.Still as beautiful to look at today.Wonderful music. 'The Silly Song' is my favorite.Great characters. Dwarfs. Dopey & Grumpy are my favorites.The Evil Queen is my 2cd favorite Disney Villain behind Maleficent.I prefer the Evil Queen to her alter ego the Old Hag.'Heigh Ho'.Voices for the characters were perfect. Too bad now most everyone who worked on the film has passed on.Films are NOT made of this quality anymore. Way too bad.'I'm Wishing'.
In my opinion, this is an absolutely romantic Disney masterpiece. If you ask me, Maleficent (voice of Eleanor Audley) was truly diabolical. You'll have to see the movie if you want to know why. On the other hand, Sleeping Beauty (voice of Mary Costa) was a very beautiful lady. To me, the scenery was beautiful, the cast was well chosen, and the writing was strong. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did very well. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this absolutely romantic Disney masterpiece to all of you who haven't seen it. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it.
.... except as a grown-up, you can actually appreciate its value even more!
It's no secret that this movie was a major box office disaster for Disney, that it almost single-handedly killed the animation department, and that it resulted in the Disney company switching to cheaper, more grunge-esque animation in the future. All of this is a real shame.The story that Disney is setting out to tell in this movie isn't the strongest story in Disney's history by far, but the glorious widescreen of this film is stunning. The colours and backgrounds are gorgeous and this movie is an absolute gem for the eyes. Coupled with the acting, the orchestration and one of Disney's all-time greatest villains, this movie is an absolute joy to watch. It is the most criminally underrated among Disney's catalogue.
I LOVED THIS MOVIE WHEN INWAS A CHILD & still do today. A wonderful cast along with a great storyline! It has love, laughter throughout the film, dark moments, magic!!!! Such a terrific movie!! A+++ Film. I WOULD HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE TO ANYONE!!!
A real classic. Able to watch w kids without them being scared silly. Sweet and catchy music.
Sleeping Beauty is a classic. It features memorable music and one of the best Disney villains ever. Plus, who doesn't love Fauna trying to bake a cake without magic and the epic pink versus blue war between Flora and Merryweather? Plus, the ending is one of the most intense battles found in a Disney animated feature. This is still as fun to watch as an adult as it was to watch it as a kid.
Walt Disney's first widescreen animated film is a variation on the 'Snow White' legend, as Princess Aurora is cursed by evil witch queen Maleficent to die before her 16th birthday by pricking her finger on a spindle wheel. To prevent this, her father the King sends her into the care of three good but bumbling fairy godmothers who raise her, but are still unable to prevent the curse, though Aurora's love Prince Philip will revive her with a kiss, if he can first survive the trap set for him by Maleficent, and then battle her when she transforms herself into a huge dragon. Superbly animated film with a most vivid climax. Story may not be original, but will hold children spellbound, and remains entertaining for adults.
The first 'princess' classic I've seen. Definitely has the classic drama of some evil witch or person (female, really?) who tries to ruin the classic story. Almost does so, then someone, typically insignificant people, come over and save the day, and then the princess is happy.This is just that case. Someone who is a princess and someone who is a prince. They both were planned on getting married, one gets a curse. Then they hide. The evil person does what they can to stop them from succeeding. Then something good happens. That's the story of sleeping beauty.I rate this a 7/10 only for a few reasons. First, the story confused me a bit, I never did understand what she was cursed with, why the witch was evil at all, etc. Second, I thought it was rather interesting how the fairies said that the prince cannot be helped by magic, yet that's the thing they did to help the prince. I thought it was intentional, and the fairies would learn not to break their promises, but I guess it didn't get noticed.Anyhow, it's rated 7/10, but it is STILL a good classic. :)
Last year, with the release of the Platinum Edition of «Sleeping Beauty», my curiosity for the film woke up, cause it's was a while since I last time saw it. I bought the new DVD and got a pleasant re-acquaintance with «Sleeping Beauty». I won't call it my favorite Disney classic of all time, but it's definitively a entertaining and enchanting Disney classic for Disney-lovers to enjoy. «Sleeping Beauty» is, layer-wise, also one of Disney's most interesting films for an adult viewer, cause the film deals with pretty dark elements. I'll actually claim that adults may enjoy the film more than the kids, cause there are some really frightening scenes. I saw «Sleeping Beauty» first time when I was eight years old and it was one of the few Disney films that actually scared me. Of course if the younger kids are going to be scared depends on how easy they are to scare, but I'll still state that parents should think twice before showing this film to the youngest family members, cause some scenes, accompanied with gloomy music, are enough to make a traumatic impact on kids (speaking of which, a earlier friend of mine got scared by the dragon and didn't wanted to see the film until he grew up).In spite of «Sleeping Beauty' being really dark, it's a pretty lighthearted film, too. There are some wonderful, classical Disney moments here, which I'm going to talk more about later. But first about the characters.The best of them are without doubt the Goodfaires, which are the most present characters too. Fauna is my personal favorite. Other likable characters are Prince Philip's father, King Hubert and the horse, Samson. To claim the two lovebirds, Prince Philip and Princess Aurora, as passive characters may be unfair, but unfortunately that's the truth. But in return, they've been given wonderful singing voices by Mary Costa and Bill Shirley. And Aurora's character design is interesting, too. Malificent, on the other hand, is one of Disney's most memorable villains and there's no reason to wonder why; With her calm, collected, but cold presence she's sure to be memorized by every child and Disney villain (and I personally think she's sort of cute too). I used to think that her monster-like helpers were quite annoying, but not anymore.As mentioned, there are many wonderful and spectacular scenes; The climatic dragon-fight is one of them, but Aurora's journey towards the spinning wheel in the castle is a chilling sequence. And the sequences with her in the woods along with all the animals and her Prince is pure Disney magic, as is all the scenes with the Three Goodfaires. The animation is beautiful and the widescreen format suites this movie well, as the Tchaikowsky-music does. It was a perfect fit for the movie, by giving it more substance and sophistication, actually. Except for 'Hail To The Princess Aurora', the songs are quite enchanting, although they haven't been the most mentioned ones from Disney. In spite of the screenplay being quite straightforward and predictable (like you can expect from Disney at that time), there are some clever twists on the love story, which catches the interest of the viewers.So don't miss 'Sleeping Beauty'. It's a entertaining and cute film for every Disney fans to enjoy.
Sleeping Beauty is a golden Disney movie. It's so picturesque and brilliant. Whenever I put this on it gives me a deep sense of peace and comfort. There's something magical in the animation of the woods, creatures and castles. Just like reading a Brothers Grimm tale, it transports the viewer to a dreamy place in the past. You can't help but fall in love with the three faeries: Flora, Fauna and Merriwether. They guide the ravishing Briar Rose (AKA Princess Aurora) to brace her fate and to meet Prince Phillip, the Prince Charming of every girl's dream. The evil is dark and foreboding, and the good is light and beautiful. I think it's very much like Sword in the Stone (another excellent one) in the sense that the animation is splendid and it takes place in the medievel times...that alone conjures up visions of enchantment. Watch out for a cute line said by Prince Phillip to his father when he tries to persuade him that marrying someone under your rank is OK. 'After all..it's 1435' or something on that order..ahh it's pretty cute. So simple, such good storytelling...fabulous.
As a kid I was crazy over this movie.  Years later, when I've gotten all cynical about Disney, it's the only one I still think very fondly of. What I think I liked was it improved the original story without ruining it(**cough**cough**Pocohantas**cough**), plus it introduced three fairies who could make it into the top ten for best fairies of all time.('I love happy endings!' 'Yes, I do to-*gasp*BLUE!')  Maybe the songs aren't the best but the score is, and so is Aurora's voice.  This one is one to last.
That is my favorite quote from this Disney classic. Disney really didn't shy away from being real and didn't try to stay completely G rated. And I love that about this film. Maleficent is an excellent villainous, she has the perfect evil look and the voicing is great too, fits the character well. The fairies are great lovable characters. I always forget which is which but I know they're flora fauna and maryweather, hope I didn't butcher the names lol. But anyways, the fairies that guard and look after Aurora as a child are very colorful and fun characters which makes the movie overall more fun and fitting for kids to love. Aurora is an alright Disney princess, I don't know she's just not a very good character to me personally. Now I did like Prince Philip as a character, he's a charming lovable male love interest. I would've liked the romance between Aurora and Philip better if Aurora wasn't so bland and boring as a character. Aurora really is the only part of the movie I just don't really care for. The rest is great and very entertaining. This is yet another Disney movie that I do recommend for a fun family movie night. The action is fun and engaging and I especially loved the special effects, they're the best when it comes to Maleficent. 8/10.
One of the most famous (and beautiful) adaptations of the classic Grimm fairy tale, 'Sleeping Beauty' remains a Disney masterpiece. Funny, romantic, scary and magical, this animated film creates an enchanting picture of Medieval Europe (probably Germany) that resembles the Gothic artistic movement, enriched with music inspired by Tchaikovsky's ballet. 'Sleeping Beauty' touches themes such as love, hope and the perennial battle between the forces of Good and Evil. Although it is not similar to the latest Disney films that present independent, emancipated women, it is, nonetheless, an exciting artistic creation that has received a place among the films that comprise the Golden Age of the cinematic (animation) world.
This film is the adaptation to animation film of the folk tale 'Sleeping Beauty' by Charles Perrault. Directed by Clyde Geronimi, has a script by Erdman Penner and the voices of Mary Costa, Bill Shirley, Eleanor Audley and other voice actors.The story needs no introduction, as well as any comment to the script, which is basically a reproduction of the tale. Its one of the stories that accompanied the childhood of everyone, and that everyone learned and love. And there was no better way to immortalize it than let Disney do this film, with all the magic usually employed in his works. The dubbing work was very well done and the voices are excellent, the drawings were exquisitely made, the traditional way, as was done before the beginning of digital technologies. The soundtrack, from George Burns, earned the nomination for the Oscar and is excellent in every way, helping to make this film one of the most striking and romantic of Disney's career, and one of the most classic among the several classics that this film studio gave to the world cinema.Timeless, immortal like the story it portrays, this film will continue to be seen and admired for generations, regardless of age, culture or language.
Walt Disney wanted Sleeping Beauty to look completely different to the rest of Disney's animated features and be the pinnacle of animation at the time. In a number areas that was certainly achieved. Though not a success on its release, Sleeping Beauty is a visual wonder and has some of the best elements ever put in a Disney film. The film based itself around both the Charles Perrault and Brothers Grimm versions, as well as using points from the Tchaikovsky ballet. It revolves around a princess cursed to fall into a sleep on her 16th birthday by pricking her finger on a spinning wheel, from which she can only be awaken by her true love. It's a story that is widely known, but what makes the film so effective are the methods used to tell it.There's only one major issue with the film and sadly it's with the main characters. Both Aurora and Prince Phillip are incredibly dull. Aurora does practically nothing of note, all she does is stand around looking pretty or sing with the animals and she just comes off as plain boring. In her defence she is asleep for the second half of the film, but it's difficult to care for her as we know nothing about her because we never get an insight into her character. Prince Phillip is equally as uninteresting. He gets a few funny moments at first, but his attraction to Aurora is rushed and he doesn't really have a personality. He is the focal point of the climax, but he doesn't say a word during it which is odd and gets rather tedious.Elsewhere however the characters are fantastic. The three fairies are wonderful and are effectively the true heroes of the film. They all have distinct personalities without being clichéd, they provide a good balance of appropriate comedy as well drama and the voice actresses (including regulars Verna Felton and Barbara Luddy) do excellent jobs. The two kings who flip-flop between bickering and friendliness get a few good laughs too. With that said, what really pushes the film to great heights is Maleficent who is easily one of Disney's greatest ever villains. It is frighteningly evil the sheer lengths she'll go to over being snubbed at a party, showing that she is simply a superb mix of terrifying and cunning. Her design is a perfect blend of scary and stylish, while Eleanor Audley's classy voice adding even more punch to the character.The animation is simply stunning, completely different to anything Disney had done before or done since. It reminds me a lot of tapestry work or medieval art. It isn't as bright as previous films and everything is drawn in a more realistic style that gives the film an added uniqueness. The overly angular design and muted colour scheme work brilliantly in this respect too. The backgrounds are very flat and allow for the characters to pop out more, but the amount of detail that goes into them is incredible. The forests and castles are just beautiful to look at. The score is equally as good, coming straight from the famed ballet. It allows for some wonderful melodies and some great builds of tension, with songs such as 'Once Upon A Dream' also being very enjoyable.Another impressive aspect is the films atmosphere. There is a great deal of tension present throughout the film and an ever building sense of dread that makes everything at stake seem all the more important. I also enjoy how unsettling the film can be, the whole sequence involving the spinning wheel is extremely creepy thanks to the visuals and the haunting music which are both used expertly. The film also has a lot of slower moments that work in its favour in allowing the atmosphere to build up. There's also a lot more action and intensity than you would expect, in fact the climax is one of Disney's best. It keeps on building in obstacles that Prince Philip must face and Maleficent becoming a dragon takes it all to another level.On the whole I'd say Sleeping Beauty is one of Disney's strongest works from their golden age. It does have its faults mainly in its two leads who are very dull, but what it does well it does incredibly well. As said this is possibly Disney's best looking film, certainly one of their most unique, and it's a film worth viewing for the visuals alone. I think the fairies are very enjoyable, there is a wonderfully sense of atmosphere throughout and the music is fantastic. Maleficent is one of Disney's greatest villains, whenever she appears you can't take your eyes away and she has everything you would want in a villain. It's a film that rewards repeated viewings and one that is always engaging whenever I watch it.
I don't think I ever saw this movie as a kid; that was back in the days when Disney wouldn't put their movies on TV, and I don't think I saw it in the theater. But I've become curious about the old Disney films, so I thought I'd take a look.While the title focuses on sleeping beauty, the movie itself focuses on good and bad magic, the good represented by three fairies, the bad by the wicked Malificent. This is fortunate, because the beauty and her love interest are painfully dull; Disney's attempt to create classically attractive people is rather unattractive.The fairies, on the other hand, are delightful and often quite funny, and Malificent is a wonderful character who I imagine would be rather scary for children. Outside of the two lovers, character design is very good, 50s-era design (things went downhill for Disney in the 60s). Some of the animation is impressive (particular scenes with Malificent). The music is rather unfortunate, featuring cheesy choral arrangements that represent the worst of that era's musical concepts, but overall this is very good. I still prefer the modern Disney of Frozen and Beauty and the Beast, but this is well worth watching.
Give this movie another watch without prejudice. Don't watch this movie thinking about how the beautiful princess gets rescued by a beautiful prince and then call it sexist trash. I feel like people aren't giving these princess movies much of a chance. People are afraid of things they don't get. This movie is based on a ballet. And a centuries old fairytale, that is far darker and twisted then this Disney version. A pinch of understanding will make a big difference on how you see this movie. People want the princess to be a wild bohemian woman of the forest instead of a elegant soft mannered girl (like its such a BAD thing). Sleeping beauty probably has more female characters then in most Disney princess movies. Aurora, Flora, Fauna, Merryweather, Maleficent. They each show different forms of femininity. Aurora - the beautiful teen princess, The three elderly good fairies - Flora, Fauna and Merryweather, Maleficent - the glamorous evil witch. The story itself is very simple and straightforward, but look and listen closely or you can miss the subtle details. A lot happens on Auroras first birthday. Everyone in the kingdom rejoices for the blessed birth of their new princess. Hail to the Princess Aurora! Then Flora blesses baby Aurora with the Gift of Beauty, while Fauna gave the child the Gift of Song. Before Merryweather could give the child her gift, Maleficent appeared and invoked a curse that would cause the princess to die upon pricking her finger on the spindle of spinning wheel. Her feelings were hurt that she wasn't invited to Auroras B-day bash. Merryweather though was able to weaken it and provide a means for the curse to be broken. Instead of dying, Aurora would instead fall into a deep sleep from which only True Love's Kiss would awaken her, breaking the spell. Oh and before all that Aurora is betrothed to a 7 year old Prince Phillip. The three good fairies come up with a plan to take Aurora from the palace and raise her as their own, deep and secluded in the forest were Maleficent wont find her. Very simple. Here's a list to shorten things up.Aurora is beautiful inside and out. Shes not just a pretty face, her kindness is shown through her forest animal friends. Shes a symbol of all things good and beautiful. Not just some object. She wasn't the cause of all her misfortunes. And everyone not just the prince sacrifices themselves for her. She is the dearly loved and treasured to everyone in her kingdom. The prince in this movie has a name and his name is Phillip.Phillip is lured towards Aurora by her spellbinding voice, which Fauna gifted her with. A little bit of help before anyone knew of what was to come. Once upon a Dream is a sum up of everything that happened before Aurora meets Phillip and everything after. '' I know you a walked with you once upon a dream, I know you the gleam in your eyes is so familiar a gleam''The three good fairies are female heroes. Instead of swords they wield wands. They brought up Aurora hoping it would save her from Maleficents wrath. They rescue Phillip and help slay her in the end.Aurora isn't overly passive. Her godmothers told her not to speak to strangers, yet she does when Phillip shows up. When she finds out about her true identity being a princess instead of a peasant and how shes betrothed to some prince. She panics. She doesn't want some prince, she wants Phillip. Pretty cool though how they were betrothed to be married, and then they find each other 16 years later and fall in love on their own terms. Aurora isn't going to defy the very people who raised and loved her all her life. So she simply goes with her godmothers to the Castle obediently. If she was truly overly lovesick, she would have just ran off or something. Prince Phillip does the most. He sacrifices his life to save his love. Hes such a man. As Aurora sleeps in the highest tower, her people sleep from the spell the three fairies put on them. Everyone wakes up only when there princess wakes up. How dark and romantic is that. Everyone loves her, and everyone suffers with her. lolThere's a lot of layers here in this movie. More then I can list. People mock the damsel in distress as if these poor girls could do anything about it. Give it another go without prejudice and you may just fall in love with this masterpiece.
Sleeping Beauty, along with the modern series of Disney films beginning with 'Beauty & the Beast' and stretching through to 'Treasure Planet', breaks a lot of the old rules associated with animation. Widescreen? Why do you need widescreen in animation? Because it gives another layer of depth to the scene, not to mention the best, purest animation that the old school studio artists ever did. Earlier work like 'Snow White', 'Pinnochio', 'Dumbo', 'Peter Pan' -- all indisputably great, but they look like, well, cartoons. 'Sleeping Beauty' looks like an actual film - rich in color, detail, staging, etc.And this is all, of course, rooted in one thing, which the unbelievably convincing artistry of the Disney staff in creating this world. The scene when Maleficent sneaks into Aurora's dressing room via the fireplace - with the dim lights, the chilly music, the perfectly timed explosion - it looks like Hitchcock more than Disney! The way the film furiously moves through its exciting rescue/battle climax, it looks like a mix of 'Ben-Hur', 'The Adventures of Robin Hood', 'Bridge on the River Kwai', and  'Casablanca'.
Endlessly watchable, loveable, enchanting...the list goes on. Four stars for 'Sleeping Beauty', the best of the 'Classic' Disney films
This is one of the best Disney film ever.  It has a great story, it is not to sappy, and it has the best villainess, that Disney has ever created. Maleficent, the witch, is without a doubt, one of the best villains of any movie or TV show.  She takes her place right among Catwoman and Kathy Bates in Misery. If she were not the villain, the movie wouldn't be half what it is.
In my mind, this is the most beautiful Disney film done while Walt was alive.  If you have seen the additional material attached to the most recent release on video, you are aware of the time and man hours that went into the film.  The stylizing of the film is a stroke of genius and the color and form lure you in.  I can remember as a child being fascinated by the visuals. This is truly an achievement in animation.  It is also worth it to hear Mary Costa's incredible singing voice.
I have yet to see `Sleeping Beauty' on a big, wide screen - I can only dream.  Of all animated films this one offers the most spectacle, the most astounding sights.  The downside is that production design wags the dog. This is a truly beautiful film; but it is also, I must admit, a little drowsy.  -Actually I'm simplifying a little.  Aurora and Phillip are ciphers, and they would have been ciphers whatever the art direction had been like; the story is not an enthralling story, and the art direction cannot be blamed for THAT, either.  At most the art direction stiffens and constrains Disney's animators a little.  But it gives us ample compensation. It's a strangely fertile cross-breed between square-angled medieval painting and animation styles of the 1950s.  It's an understatement to say that nothing else is quite like it.The score is adapted from Tchaikovsky's ballet (and bits of his fifth symphony, and probably bits of other things), with the suggestion being, presumably, that since Tchaikovsky claimed this territory, nothing less than Tchaikovsky will now serve.  It adds to the ornate grandeur, certainly. (Tchaikovsky is not always ideally treated, though, when lyrics are set to his tunes.)Of all the studio's animated films this one is closest in spirit to a fairytale.  It's mesmerising rather than involving.  We can forgive it much because it so clearly believes in itself.
This movie is just perfect, although it might not be for very small kids (believe me, the image of Maleficent and Briar Rose going upstairs to yonder topmost tower surrounded by that creepy green light nearly ruins my childhood, hah hah). The music is suitable for every scene, and they really got it when they decided to use Tchaickovsky´s ballet for 'Sleeping Beauty'. A great adaptation. The script really gets it. That careful use of words, that magnificent lyrics are inmortal. But hey... it´s the villain who steals the show! I tell you that Maleficent is the most remembered character of the whole movie, even more than Aurora/Briar Rose. Such coldness, elegance and wickedness is something quite unforgettable. The animation and surrounding is also incredible. Such a different kind of characters, such a greatness in the use of color and in the surrounds... It´s surely the best Disney movie in that respect, including Beauty and the Beast. A glorious movie for everyone, and certainly of the best pictures cinema has ever given birth to. Don´t miss it!RATE: 10/10It might not happen in the USA, but in Spain 'Sleeping Beauty' DVD cannot be seen in 16:9, although it is said so in the box!
I saw this theatrically, twice at time-of-release, and then decades later in re-release. The rich tapestry of animation, plot, and marvelous Tschiakovsky music make this mandatory viewing and listening for all except the very young. I recall at the time missing the original and lush Disney-style animation I had grown up with. Having seen 'Snow White', 'Pinocchio', 'Fantasia', 'Dumbo', 'Cinderella', 'Alice in Wonderland', and all the other Thirties-Forties Disney Studios classics, 'Sleeping Beauty' uses a somewhat more sparse and flat look then in vogue with avant-garde animators. In retrospect, however, I think the 'look' of 'Sleeping Beauty' has held up well, unlike many of the experimental super-minimalist animation efforts of that time. Background artist Eyvind Earle had said he was attempting a 'primitive' look, with emphasis on vertical and horizontal lines, in the manner of Botticelli but with Persian and Japanese influences. (Notice that the trees are squared.) Looking back, this creativity does lend a mood of fantasy and surrealism, in order with the theme.If I missed the 'Bambi' look in 1959, however, today I miss the 'Sleeping Beauty' look, and sound, among all the recent Disney efforts!
This really was the end of an era at Disney, a 'serious' and romantic story with glorious songs and music. Here Disney once again elevated his audience, giving us immortal music with a full chorus and the incomparable voice of Mary Costa (and compare to the feeble, forgettable tunes and 'pop'-style singers of recent Disney offerings). See and hear 'Sleeping Beauty' and remember how it was before the 'knack' was seemingly lost. Highly recommended. ****
**some possible spoilers** Sleeping Beauty is a true classic in every sense.  It`s got great heroes, great villains, great animation and beautiful locations, great music and atmosphere and a classic lovestory of a brave knight and a beautiful princess. Princess Aurora is cursed by an evil fairy, who wants Aurora to die on her 16th birthday.  Three good fairies take her away from the king, in order to bring her up safely, and to bring her back to the king`s castle on her 16th birthday. Aurora grows up to become a beautiful young woman, and she falls in love with a prince, which she meets in the forest. Sleeping Beauty is a classic story.  There are classic scenes like a fight with a dragon and so on.  But as in all fairytales,  the good side wins in the end. An old favorite and definetely a rentable movie for both young and adult. 9/10
Ever since I first saw this film as a child, I have loved it.  It is not quite as popular as some of the other Disney love stories, but it definitely deserves to be.  The artistry and style of the movie is unsurpassed to this day.  It is worthy of being called art, in my opinion.  The music of Sleeping Beauty is also beyond compare  (I love it so much, my husband and I danced to the Sleeping Beauty Waltz for our first dance at our wedding). Disney, or any other studio for that matter, has yet to create another masterpiece to rival Sleeping Beauty.
When Disney produced this fairy tale based on The Sleeping Beauty by Charles Perrault and Little Briar Rose by The Brothers Grimm,it spent $6 million which made it the most expensive animated movie during its time of release during the postwar in 1959.It contains amazing musical scores and songs that were adapted from the Sleeping Beauty ballet by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky and memorable iconic characters such as Princess Aurora,Maleficent and Prince Philip.The story revolves around a young princess who was cursed a birth by an evil fairy,the baby was taken into custody by the three good fairies who took care of the her.Nevertheless,the baby still fell asleep at 16 and the evil fairy takes her into a prisoner.She could only be awakened by a kiss of a handsome prince.When the prince decides to rescue her,the evil fairy became a breathing dragon forcing a clash with the prince.This is definitely a postwar Disney classic that remains a masterpiece since it was first released more than fifty years ago.The songs,the sound and the grandeur remains magnificent despite using dated technology back then.Also,the actors/actresses who provided their voices that made many characters iconic for many years to come.
Sleeping Beauty was the first Disney movie my parents bought for my sisters and I.  That was a long time ago and numerous Disney movies later, I've almost forgotten about Disney's third animated feature.  It was never really my favorite as a kid, maybe because as some reviewers have said, it has a great amount of appeal to adults.  The story is kind of darker with no talking animals, and Maleficent, who is probably the meanest and bitterest of all the Disney villains, makes a reference to hell.  That's something you don't see everyday in a Disney movie.Nevertheless, this movie is still to be appreciated by young and old alike. Walt Disney and his staff never cease to amaze me on their ambitious efforts.  While I think Snow White's animation is more colorful and lively, Sleeping Beauty seems to have a unique animation style all its own.  At first glance, I wasn't too impressed with the forest scenes, but looking again, they almost have a different artistic style, maybe reminiscent of the time period and setting that the movie takes place.  Furthermore, I heard that Disney made this film to accompany a widescreen-type format.  Now how in the world did he see that coming?!Sleeping Beauty doesn't have the most colorful or bounciest story, but it is unique compared to other Disney flicks.  As I wrote earlier, the villain is just absolutely diabolical, and the prince in this movie actually sacrifices his life and battles an army of followers and a sinister dragon.  But what makes Sleeping Beauty stand out the most is its magnificent score based on Tchaikovsky's ballad of the same name.  The songs are pretty good too with the hilarious drinking song Skumps (another indication this was aimed at adults) and my favorite, Once Upon a Dream, which reminds me of visiting Disneyland and the Magic Kingdom.All in all, Sleeping Beauty is a fine contribution to the Disney legacy.  It may not stand out as much as Snow White or Bambi, but it definitely should not be forgotten.My IMDb Rating: 9/10.  My Yahoo! Grade: A- (Almost Perfect)
The old cliche, 'they don't make 'em like they used to' is certainly true here.  I grew up on Disney animation in the 70s-90s and even today.  I used to think Disney has pretty good animation.  I'd never seen anything from them as old as this movie.  The animation is SO MUCH SMOOTHER and more realistic than the stuff Disney cranks out today.  You can actually take the villain in this movie seriously, as opposed to the 'gnashing teeth' villains in today's Disney movies.  Everything today has been so watered down and 'PC' that the scary edge is gone.Disney, take a clue from your old work.  Sleeping Beauty is enjoyable by both kids and adults, yet doesn't need subtle references to adult topics in order to maintain that enjoyability.This easily ranks 9/10.
I loved this movie as a kid.. and now that I own it on D.V.D at the age of 21... I still love this movie... but I must be honest.. the main thing about this movie that I am entertained by is her evilness herself Maleficent.. my favorite Disney villian of all time (#2 would be Jafar and #3 would be Scar... a decent order if you ask me)The Animation is great... the music beautiful.. and the voice talent... again specially the voice of Maleficent... just wonderful.... not to mention Maleficent has my favorite qoute from any Disney Villan 'Quote Spoiler Alert'Now shall you deal with ME, o Prince -- and all the powers of HELL!'End of Quote Spoiler'Whew even at the age of 21.. I sort of shiver when she says that..... a wonderful disney flick...9/10
Disney's animation projects appeared to be running out of steam in this warmed over, under the radar imitation of 'Snow White'. The animation world had changed dramatically in the 22 years since Disney first delved into features. This one, while charming and darkly scary to some, was a bit of a bore for me. I could never really get 'Snow White' out of my head. The similarities in the stories should have been enough to tell Walt to let it go...and let someone else do this one. Snow White had a Prince who kissed her and broke the spell...so does Sleeping Beauty. Wicked Witches? Both stories have one. But the first time was the best time, and in this film Disney had no real message. As for Fairy Godmothers...Cinderella had one...and he cast some of the same people over and over again to add to the monotony. Verna Felton comes to mind. She was a familiar figure on TV by now, as well as having been a familiar and identifiable voice on radio in the 40s with Judy Canova as well as Eve Arden...amongst others. Snow White and Sleeping Beauty both survived murder plots against them. Both were of royal blood...the similarities are striking. As I watched the making of this feature in the short film afterwards, I wondered how Walt could look into the camera with a straight face and claim anything new or strikingly original about this film. The technology had advanced, of course...but none of it was his...or very little of it. It was shot on 70mm film because the film world was being choked to death by TV, and processes such as Cinemascope were coming into play in a vain effort to recapture the once captive theater audience that would never again be captive. The film was successful and Walt made his money...but that was largely marketing...he had something now that he did not have when Snow White was in theatrical release...and that was the millions of baby-boomers who were not yet born when Snow White was made. But a lot of them would see Snow White, and would voice the same similarities at one point or another that are being voiced here. Not to take anything away from Disney...his encounters early on in his career had sharpened his business sense. But, for me, Sleeping Beauty is more an entertainment vehicle and a money maker, and not one of the truly innovative Disney films. In fact, as animation became more and more condensed as the 60s came around, Disney, as well as his animation counterparts in other arenas, would come to rely more upon development of characters as real animation was thrown to the four winds. This feature was made just prior to the animation low point in which Disney films would languish until the late 1980s or early 90s, when interest in animation would be revitalized. I can say no more about Sleeping Beauty other than some may find entertainment value in it. But I prefer Snow White over Sleeping Beauty any day of the week.
Widescreen Disney animated fairy tale with music classily adapted from Tchaikovsky has three good fairies sheltering a princess, who has been doomed by a curse. Free of the usual Disney manipulations, but also a little short on humor. One of the fairies constantly grumbles in a snit, there's a slapstick wand fight, but that's about it in the fun & games department. The backgrounds are angular and subdued, and that fits well with the more-or-less serious tone, but interest starts to wane with about 15 minutes to go. There are some lovely set pieces: the burning of all the spinning wheels shown in longshot, the entire village falling asleep at once, the raven circling the forest looking for Aurora, seeing lights blazing through the brush. The music is gorgeous and the voice-work impeccable. *** from ****
Disney did so many great things that, for me, some don't quite catch me. Maybe it's the story. Maybe it's the music. Maybe it's a simple lack of the edginess that many of the great one's films often have, but there is something that isn't quite as sharp in this one. Also, I feel the animation isn't as crisp as many of the other films. The story, of course, is that a poor young woman is doomed to sleep for many years after a witch has been crossed. It's an example of how you can do everything you can, but fate steps in and messes with you. But it's a fairy tale that we all know, and things will eventually be dealt with. I feel very positively about this movie; it's just not my favorite. Hooray for Tchaikovsky.
This is my absolute favorite Disney movie ever! As a little girl, I would watch this captivating love story time and again, and I still watch it, and I love every moment. This movie has everything a Disney story should have; comedy, drama, love, hate, good, evil, and most importantly--music! Disney writers today do not write their own music (they use pop music that stinks) and also, though the movies are directed at a young audience, the jokes and puns in the movies are often only understood by adults, and they go straight over the children's heads.Anyway, i love the songs in this film. I love Tchaikovsky, and the lyrics that the Disney writers accompanied along with them is just spectacular! The art is very unique, in that the aimators imitated Medieval artwork. No other Disney production used that technique. I also think Prince Philip is the most handsome Disney male and Aurora is the most beautiful Disney female. This is the quintessential Disney movie. A 10. Superb. The Best.
One of the first books that I read as a child was the Disney version of Sleeping Beauty. From that moment onwards, this story captivated me as no other before. The ideas of love at first sight, pure evil, and the goodness of others were all exemplified in this story, and even as a child, I recognized the wonderment of the story.When I actually saw the movie for the first time, though, I must admit. I was a bit disappointed. I felt the drawing of Aurora was too angular and not realistic enough for me. QUICK SPOILER warning!!! I also thought that Prince Phillip was too much of a wuss in the movie - the fairies had to guide him in every step and produce the next step for him as he battled Maleficent. I missed that part of character in the book. END SPOILER.However, putting all that aside, I was still enchanted by the movie. The use of Tchaikovsky's Sleeping Beauty only augmented the beauty of the movie, and heightened the romantic appeal. It was beautiful watching the two fall in love as they danced and sang together. That scene gives a false sense of security that makes the rest of the movie much more exciting. I loved Maleficent, and I must agree with others who feel that Maleficent is the best villain. Even compared to other Disney villains, Maleficent is clearly the most powerful: she has magical ability, decent henchmen(the raven), is never comical(thus making her cruelty much more noticeable), and embodies pure evil. While this movie may not be the best for all, it will always be one of my favorites due to the combination of so many elements that make the film much more realistic than you would believe for a Disney movie. In all simplicity, it is a story of how you must overcome obstacles in order to acquire true love, and such a story is eternal.
This is my favourite Disney movie.I saw it when I was 8,and that was the first movie which scared me to death.Back home at night,I was afraid of the dark,I could not turn off the light,because I was afraid of Maleficent.One scene would go well in any horror movie:Princess Aurora ,spellbound,comes up the stairs,and arrives in a room.Maleficent is hidden in the fireplace,you can only see her eyes..Absolutely frightening!I saw it again at 18,and although I had grown up(!) I was scared almost the same way.I cannot think of any baddie ,any villain in the Mouse House that can equal this witch.She's got some kind of vamp's face-not as ugly as Snowwhite's evil queen-,and her horns add to her satanic(sadistic) look.When she becomes a dragon,the terror she generates is not as intense because a dragon remains a dragon,even if it's more successful than Mim's metamorphosis in 'Sword in the stone'.The rest of the movie seems rather nice,compared to the movie's baddie.Tchaikowsky's waltz is tastefully used ,and adds lustre to a pretty bland pair of lovers.The three good fairies-three Cinderella's godmothers for the price of one- are funny and charming and God knows how much we need them as a relief in the nightmarish world of Maleficent and her demons.A question remains:at the time,was it really a movie for children?Now time has passed ,the kids have seen worse.But I keep on thinking it was a bit too much for the brat I was in 1960.
Maybe the worst princess of Disney of the 3 classic
Sleeping Beauty is one of those animated Disney movies with some of the best elements ever created by them and at the same time it has drawbacks which stick out like sore thumb. But the greatness of the good stuff is so overwhelming and magical that you would be an asshole not to judge its greatness. Along with Bambi, Sleeping Beauty has the most gorgeous forest landscapes and a colour palette which demonstrates how much colour adds to the mood and impression of differen places, from the green and black of Maleficent's lair and her minions to the pastel colours of Aurora's castle. Speaking of Maleficent, she is bloody brilliant in almost every way. Of the fantasy based Disney villains she and The Horned King are my favourites. The Horned King's design surely is based on her's ;) About the characters: that's one of the movie's most polarising aspect, because the fairy godmothers are great and have the best lines in the movie along with Maleficent. The prince and Aurora are so boring! Our main characters barely say anything through out the movie, Aurora is put to sleep so she is forgiven, but the prince doesn't even utter a single line after saying 'goodbye father' and goes out to fight Maleficent. Yeah, that's a major drawback, but everything else is so amazing that it outweighs the obvious flaws. If you like exeptional artwork, great music, entertaining side characters and all power of hell brought to you by The Queen of Darkness herself then you definitely must see Disney's Sleeping Beauty.
Sleeping beauty is a wonderful fairytale about a girl who is cursed at birth to prick her finger on a spinning wheel and die on her sixteenth birthday until It can be broken by true live's first kiss. Three fairies take her into their cottage deep within the woods to protect her from Maleficent's evil plan. The historical details never forgotten even with magic and mystical elements making it feel like a true story once upon a time.It's perfectly made from the beautiful animation, the villain is top notch and the songs are masterfully composed. The characters all have unique personalities that it's hard to choose a favorite from Maleficent the deliciously evil sorcerer to the three fairies and their playful antics and gallant prince Philip full of strength and might. The song I dreamt of you once upon a dream complements and bookends it like poetry.What makes it truly exceptional is the loving care put into every detail from with the waving of the leaves to the waving of feathers and wrinkling of noses grounding it in realism. The only leap of faith in logic found is how are clothes created or stitched unless the Fairies lead a helping hand.Walt Disney created an enchanting story that draws you in from the beginning and sweeps you away into its magnificent world.10/10
King Stefan and Queen Leah finally has a child, Princess Aurora. At her christening, she is betrothed to boy Prince Phillip, the heir to neighboring King Hubert. The three good fairies Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather bless the child with gifts. Before Merryweather gives her blessing, the evil fairy Maleficent interrupts and curses the princess with death before the sun sets on her sixteenth birthday as she pricks her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel. Merryweather uses her blessing to alter the curse to a deathlike sleep from which she can be awakened by true love's kiss. The three fairies comes up with a scheme to turn into humans and raise the girl as their own.This is definitely an old fashion fairy tale where the princess is rescued by her prince. The songs are old fashion but 'Once Upon a Dream' is still great. The hand drawn animation is beautiful. Maleficent is a great villain. The three fairies aren't nearly funny enough. Nevertheless this is a classic although it is of its times.
Possibly the definition of style-over-substance, I can barely explain why I love this film above all other Disney films... It almost ditches everything narrative to provide one of the greatest villains of all time. For me the film is hardwired: I love it.The story is as simple as they come. When Princess Aurora is born, she is blessed by the three good fairies with life-long gifts of beauty and song, but another fairy, the wicked Maleficent, curses the child to be killed before her sixteenth birthday. Only one true love can possibly save Aurora should the curse be fulfilled.Even though my feelings for this film are deep, deep down in my heart and cannot be explained (when I started Cinema Cocoa, on my Top 50 films, this came 16th) I will admit there are issues with it. It is terribly simplistic. Our characters have next to no motivation or any character outside of classic archetypes. Aurora could be any number of Disney princesses; she starts out life hidden away from Maleficent's knowledge by the ditsy three fairies Flora, Fauna and Merryweather, and while nowadays she might have become ditsy herself (ie Tangled) Aurora becomes... completely unassuming and quite bland. She walks in the forest, singing about her one true love, talks with animals, sings some more. But you can see she is at least curious, if a little ignorant. Our Prince, Prince Phillip, is even more generic and not very memorable (his noble horse is of course a classic Disney character). No... all of Sleeping Beauty's power (and terror) radiates from the merciless Maleficent, and while she too has virtually no characterisation either outside of being the antagonist (she wasn't invited to the Royal party?? That would make anyone mad!) the film gives her so much gravitas and absolute menace. She hardly shows herself, but her scenes are easily, easily the most memorable moments and will sear themselves into any young child's mind forever. From her curse, to the mesmerising and haunting Spinning Wheel scene, to of course... the finale. The finale to end all finales, so short but so intense. I could happily go on and on about her.So do I purely enjoy this film for its antagonist? Probably; Maleficent is at the centre of my love for villains, but Sleeping Beauty's soundtrack is wonderful, haunting and very memorable. I've not watched it in years but the visuals are very striking too. Even on the old posters it says: 'Wondrous to see, glorious to hear'.A lot of it is aimed at girls, I admit. Most of the film is following the three fairies taking care of Aurora in their hideaway (failing to bake cakes and make dresses) and with only their mistakes to drive the plot forward. Aurora's constant singing about her elusive dream of her Prince Charming. A couple of kings who rather needlessly fill time with comedic singing and drinking (reminds me of another favourite: The Sword in the Stone) there's plenty to find irksome for the modern viewer.I guess I am just smitten with it. I still get chills towards the end. A film normally requires good characters to envelope me into caring and fearing for their lives by the end... but Sleeping Beauty doesn't do that (at least not for me); it instead sells one of film's greatest villains and the terrible wrath she happily bestows upon the hapless.I love it.
This is a good 'damsel in distress' story filled with magic, music and Maleficent! I fell in love with this movie when I was a girl! The strangest part is I really liked the jealous Queen Maleficent just as much as Princess Aurora and 'Prince Charming'.The best scenes to me were the fairy's battle of the dress and the battle between Maleficent and the Prince. Both were extremely memorable and funny. I still have an unused postcard I acquired at Epcot that has the battle scene of Maleficent as the Dragon & the Prince. The songs aren't to bad... 'Once Upon A Dream' to me is the best and a very beautiful song indeed! It was used in a most romantic moment in the film.All in all the is film great! I do recommend this movie to anyone looking for their 'Prince or Princess'.10/10
It's the roaring 50's and Disney had it's heydays.Movies like Lady & the Tramp and Sleeping Beauty.The beautiful princess Aurora is born.But the evil witch Maleficent is jealous.As the evil witch wants to find Aurora are some fairies hiding her in a cabin in the woods.Later are the young princess falling in love with a prince under a dance in the forest.But Maleficent's creatures finds the princess.So the final climax comes where the witch turns into a dragon.The animation, music and sound is striking.Go watch this movie on a widescreen, and turn up the volume.The movie is cute, but the bad Maleficent also steals the show.Now I'm hyped for Maleficent.10/10
Sleeping Beauty (1959): Verna Felton, Barbara Jo Allen, Barbara Luddy, Eleanor Audley, Mary Costa, Bill Shirley, Taylor Holmes, Bill Thompson, Candy Candido, Bill Amsbery, Pinto Colvig, Dal MacKennon, Marvin Miller, Thurl Ravenscroft...Director...Clyde Geronimi..Screenplay/Writing...Erdaman Penner, Joe Rinaldi, Winston Hibler, Bill Peet, Ted Sears, Ralph Wright, Milt Banta...Based on the Charles Perrault fairy tale and the ballet by Peter Ilych Tchaikovsky with music arranged by George Bruns.The Masterpiece: When released in 1959, Walt Disney's Sleeping Beauty heralded a new era in it's company's animated films that would continue into the 1960's. It was a film that cost Disney 6 million dollars and his most cherished creation that took the entire decade of the 1950's to complete. The result was a beloved and world renowned fairy tale come to epic life on the big screen in Technorama, with amazing sound, color and beautiful music and melodies/themes lifted from Tchaikovsky's ballet score. It was for the folks at Disney their masterpiece not unlike epic movies that had been impressing audiences by the late 50's to compete with home television - The Ten Commandments, Ben Hur, etc. But the crown is definitely the animation and bold new cinematic look. This brilliant new look was breathtaking for 1959 audiences who had never seen anything like it. It was a kind of animated epic drama or opera. It owed to principal animator Eyvin Earle's stylistic and artsy technique, plus the contributions of great animators like Don Bluth (who would later in the 80's create films like The Land Before Time, etc) and even Chuck Jones who did work for Looney Tunes. Despite following the 'fairy tale book' genre that Disney had done with 'Snow White' and 'Cinderella', the fairy tale presented in the film is not based on the simplistic original. It is an original Disney re-make of the old and distinctly European tale. Rather than seeing it as a fairy tale, one must see it as being fantasy fiction. Its look borrows from 1400's pre-Renaissance/Gothic Medieval paintings, 'Joan of Arc' times, Christian and Catholic Europe, coat of arms, embroidery, drapes, banners and architecture. The castles are very European and in fact resemble castles depicted in illustrated manuscripts and even King Ludwig's Neuschwanstein castle in Bavaria, Germany, for which Disney modeled the Disneyland castle in California. Everything is bigger than what it was originally in the tale and it ultimately deals with good versus evil and the protection of an innocent princess by the forces of good from an evil prophecy. The epic battle between Prince Phillip and Maleficent as a Dragon suddenly becomes a sword-and-sorcery fantasy complete with a hero and heroine.Plot: King Stefan and his Queen have their long awaited child/heir Princess Aurora and the whole kingdom celebrates by a lavish and ritualistic, almost Catholic Christening. The Three Good Fairies (in primary colors red, green and blue) Flora (Verna Felton), Fauna (Barbara Jo Allen) and the feisty Merriwether (Barbara Luddy) bestow Aurora with blessings and gifts of beauty, grace and song. But the country's outcast fairy, who is in fact an evil sorceress Maleficent, bitter at not being invited and more so for not being 'wanted' takes revenge by cursing Aurora with an evil prophecy: On her 16th birthday she will prick her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel and die. Merriwether's gift: the reverse spell of putting her to sleep until her true love kisses her. The 3 Fairies take no chances and decide to raise the girl as their own ward in a secluded cottage in the deep woods. Aurora grows into a beautiful young maiden with a beautiful singing voice (Mary Costa vocalizes). Before she knows it, she's met Prince Phillip, out for a ride in the woods, and does not know that he was her betrothed all along. Neither of them are aware of their previous roles as future Prince and Princess. Upon Aurora's return to the castle where she was born, Maleficent uses her dark magic to hypnotize the princess and have her prick her finger on a dark spinning wheel made by witchcraft. The 3 Faries put the entire kingdom to sleep. Maleficent kidnaps Prince Phillip, complicating things until the Fairies rescue him. It's now a direct conflict between Maleficent and the Prince, between good and evil, for the fate of Princess Aurora.The films of Walt Disney, beginning with Snow White, including Fantasia, and the films made in the 50's- Peter Pan, Alice In Wonderland, and Lady And The Tramp, seemed to climax with the 'new' style of Sleeping Beauty. It was the pinnacle of Disney's animated movies at the time and a fitting fireworks finale to a decade of great movies.
Sleeping Beauty (1959) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Disney classic about an evil fairy who puts a curse on a young princess putting her to sleep and only a prince can awaken her with a kiss. This is a pretty straight-forward film that doesn't have anything dangerous or even challenging but what it does have is some wonderful animation and some very memorable characters. I'm pretty sure I had seen parts of this when I was a kid but never the full thing until the recently released Blu-ray, which features the film in its 2.55:1 glory with a terrific transfer. Anyone having to suffer through a Pan & Scan version of this would certainly be missing a lot because this is one of the most beautiful animated films I've ever seen. I heard this was the most expensive Disney movie in its time and that's easy to see because of how much is on the screen. I'm really not sure where to start in terms of the animation and colors but I guess a good place would be when two of the fairies are fighting over what color the dress should be. The pink and blue colors are flying back and forth and the beauty of this really caught my eye. Another great sequence in terms of animation is the ending where the prince must battle the dragon. What really sticks out as well are all the wonderful characters and this includes pretty much everyone that shows up on the screen. Not only are the main characters very memorable but so are all the supporting ones. Even the animals who just have one sequence stand out with their charm. The parents of the prince and princess are wonderful as well and there's certainly nothing more charming than the three good fairies. I'm not sure if a stronger or more complicated story would have helped or not but I'm going to guess no because the simple nature of the film is something that makes this very charming.
Sleeping Beauty definitely is a dark movie, but still has a cheery and airy feel to it. I remember when I was younger my parents didn't want me watching it because I might be scared.This wasn't my favorite Disney classic, but I do like it.I've chosen to base the fractured fairytale I'm writing on this movie.It's called THE FILES OF: Sleeping Beauty, email me if you want to read it! ^_^My personal favorite scene of Sleeping is the one where the three fairies are making the the dress, cleaning, and making the cake.I also like the scene at the end where the fairies keep changing the dress colors from pink to blue, go pink!!! XDI don't remember this movie very well, because I haven't watched it in some years, but I'd like to.(Love my spaces!)
I was 13 years old when Sleeping Beauty came out, and was very disappointed in the artwork. Even though we have the video, I seldom watch it all the way through. Tonight I did, and with years of studying cartoonists, styles, I am more disappointed than ever. The 'medieval' style is not consistent throughout the movie. It's almost as if each scene had a different lead artist. Sometimes it's stylistic with Hanna-Barbera animation, sometimes naturalistic (dungeon walls), sometimes classic Disney, sometimes it has the psychedelic beauty of Fantasia, my favorite Disney movie!I DO love the music, which has more to do with Tchaikovsky than Disney. I certainly think the Disney writers provided a livelier and more exciting story line than the original, including condensing the good fairies down to three.SOME SPOILERS FOLLOWAnd I have certain favorite scenes, that will bring me running back into the room when someone else is watching it. I love the 'Once Upon a Dream' scene with the animals pretending to be the prince. I think the battle of the dress colors is classic original Disney. The fact that it defies simple logic which would be to use both colors, makes it that much sillier and that much more tragic when the fairies accidentally reveal their hiding place (they never thought to close the flue on the fireplace). I LOVE the battle with the dragon!For me, each Disney movie has its charms and disappointments - but I'm glad I sat through Sleeping Beauty one more time!
Without Maleficent, this film would be mediocre at best. But Maleficent's evil, horrifying personality elevates this film to a much higher degree, I believe only Jafar from Aladdin is a more evil Disney animated villain (others I might prefer for their comedy, complexity, etc., but in terms of pure wickedness, only Jafar can beat this witch). I consider the movie worthy of a 9/10 courtesy of Eleanor Audley.
Sleeping Beauty was not initially a success on it's first release. Sleeping Beauty is one of Disney's lesser known, or at least lesser seen masterpieces. Deciding on a number one Disney spot would be a very hard thing for me to do, what with such great movies such as Beauty and the Beast, The Lion King, Aladdin, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, The Little Mermaid and of course... Sleeping Beauty. Everything about this movie is brilliant: the story, the music, the characters, the ending, the humor, the animation. Princess Aurora and Prince Phillip are probably the prettiest animated characters of all time. The three fairies: Flora, Fauna and especially Merryweather provide most the comedy for this magnificent film. Not to mention that my all time favorite Disney villain (and villain in general) is found in this movie: Maleficent. There have been many great Disney villains, all of them evil in their own ways. But there is something about Maleficent, she is cruel to everyone (even her own 'goons') and her face and her dress are very intimidating, not to mention her powers. The Dragon-slaying scene is one of my favorite 'killing the villain' scenes. As far as music goes: The score based on Tchaikovsky's original score is beautiful, not to mention the unforgettable song 'Once Upon a Dream'. I myself see this as one of Disney's true masterpieces- definitely the best Disney film from Walt's days. Whether you are 5 or 125 years old you will love this classic. Young audiences will love it and older audiences will enjoy the magnificent animation, the brilliant score, the unforgettable story, the lovable characters... the best Prince-Princess story. I don't think Disney could ever make a 'They lived happily ever after' type story again and that is why we must appreciate the classics left from the past, Sleeping Beauty being (in my opinion) the best of them all. A movie worthy of being in anybody's collection, I give Sleeping Beauty the highest possible rating, it's a beautiful unforgettable masterpiece.
Now then, for any fans of the more recent 'Maleficent' films - this is how it is supposed to be done! I think this film goes a long way to explaining why I almost always support the baddies in films. A princess ('Briar Rose') is born and the three good fairies are summoned to the Christening to bestow their blessings on the newborn. Just as the third is about to lavish her gift on the baby, the ominously evil witch arrives with her trusted black raven. Not invited, how rude - but she still generously gifts the child a Christening present. Needless (or should that just be needles?) to say, the spindling trade in the kingdom took a bit of a hit after that and the girl is secreted deep in forest trying to keep away from the dreadful consequences of this nasty curse. Amongst the best ever sequences in animation - the three fairies try to make a cake and a dress for her impeding 16th birthday and their efforts turn out to be disastrous. After 16 years - they resort to using their wands and we have five minutes of pure Disney magic. They cannot agree on a colour for the dress, have a bit of a magical colour-fight which is noticed by the evil sorceress's searching bird and their cunning secret is carelessly exposed... The colours, gently humorous dialogue and George Bruns' (with some Tchaikovsky) score makes this a thoroughly enjoyable fantasy romantic adventure - in my book, the best Walt ever produced.
Further romantic chapters in Disney's well-worn, singing storybook of familiar fairy tales. This one arrives late in the studio's golden period, as the creative staff is beginning to fragment, but the holdovers still know how to tap into the same old magic. Walt Disney was personally adamant that this film be wholly distinct from 1937's Snow White - with good reason, as the two share several crucial story elements - but I don't think it got there. It's a more proficient film, smoother and lovelier, better balanced, with a far more memorable foil, but in theme and appearance, there's just no escaping those similarities. That isn't a terrible thing, though; it's not like the Brothers Grimm never revisited the same fertile ground.Creative direction is where Sleeping Beauty really distinguishes itself, anyway, with a unified art deco flourish flooding the scenery and an awesomely sinister edge to anything even remotely menacing. They really outdid themselves with the evil castle/sorcerer/stormclouds stuff this time around. Maleficent alone is a stunning figure, simple and refined, elegantly evil, instantly recognizable and believably intimidating despite her slight frame.Excellent fantasy material with a touch of the whimsical, still beautiful after all this time, and the last chapter of an important era in animation history. A fond, carefully-orchestrated farewell.
This is my favorite Disney princess movie. I think it is underrated. The villain is the best. The songs are fantastic. The story is internally consistent. It has a simple premise that is perfectly executed. 'Once Upon a Dream' is a wonderful song and so memorable.I love this movie and can watch it again and again.
Wonderful music from Tchaikovsky,unforgettable characters and a story with humor,love and emotion.
This Disney classic tells the story of Princess Aurora. When she was a baby the great and the good gathered to celebrate... the wicked fairy Maleficent definitely wasn't invited but she turned up anyway and cursed the baby. On the day of her sixteenth birthday she is doomed to prick her finger on a spinning wheel and die. A good fairy manages to modify the curse so she will only fall asleep till kissed by her true love. In an attempt to avoid the curse the king has every spinning wheel destroyed and Aurora is raised in secret by the three good fairies deep in the forest. As she grows up she has no idea of her true identity. Her sixteenth birthday approaches and Maleficent searches for her while preparations are made for her to return home to her royal family to marry a prince... something complicated by the fact that she has met a handsome stranger in the forest.At sixty years of age this film has obviously dated in some departments; however it is still a delight and the animation is very impressive... especially when you consider the fact that it was all drawn by hand. The story is a lot of fun with elements of threat and romance. Maleficent is a great villainess, scary in a way that isn't too frightening for children. The excitement rises impressively towards the end as the hero rushes to save our heroine. The three good fairies, Flora, Fauna and Merryweather are a lot of fun. Aurora isn't the strongest of heroines but that doesn't matter too much as the story demands that she is a vulnerable characters. The songs do show their age but are solid enough. Overall a high quality offering from Disney which fans of the studio's works are sure to enjoy.
Charming though Aurora is,she is asleep for most of the movie.My favorite Disney villain,the evil fairy Maleficent is a much more interesting character,cruel,yet very elegant.The fairies who raised Aurora are also nice.Lovely movie.9,5/10
A promenade into Disneyland of Clyde Geronimi's 2D SLEEPING BEAUTY, a vintage corker that relegates our titular beauty and her prince as token figurines, in lieu, three chipper fairy godmothers (Flora, Fauna and Merryweather) and the vile witch Maleficent upstage everyone else in their spirited good/evil dichotomy.Chromatically kaleidoscopic, its gorgeous palette has a revivifying effect on any jaded soul to ease into its family-friendly realm of fairy-tale, and tonally dulcet (if no number is near to become a timeless ear-worm), this cel animation bowls audience over in its diligent animation work (look fabulous for its time) and a seamless narrative that binds together a tight story with apposite spectacle at every corner and turn, notably for Maleficent's thoroughgoing unleash of her malevolence, she is the embodiment of true devil, and will be made into an unusual protagonist in Robert Stromberg's live action remake in 2014, which explores her side of heart-rending backstory and humanizes her as a more compassionate and complex individual that sublimates the definition of 'true love's kiss' and subsequently spawns a franchise, with its second installment in the can.Whereas Princess Aurora and Prince Phillip are hampered by cardboard characterization, lulz oozes from the horseplay among the triad of fairies, despite that the movie sticks to stereotypes of gabby, fastidious or chubby middle-aged ladies. Pink or blue, which is the color of Aurora's dress? ultimately becomes a more imperative question than sleeping beauty's plight amid the hoopla of a traditional happily-ever-after story arc. A high water mark of 2D animation filmmaking at it time, SLEEPING BEAUTY is also a veritable delight among Disney's vast canon.
Hi everyone. Gavin.thelordofthefuture here and this is my review of Sleeping Beauty. Today is the 60th anniversary of the Disney film.The story about aurora a beautiful princess who gets cursed by an evil witch named Maleficent. She predicts that on her sixteenth birthday she'll prick her finger on a spinning wheel and fall into a sleeping death. So the three good fairies Fauna Flora and Merryweather take her to a cottage to keep her safe. But once Aurora learns about her true heritage after meeting a handsome man named Prince Phillip she gets hypnotized by Maleficent Into pricking her own finger fulfilling the curse. Prince Phillip gets captured by Maleficent but the help of the three good fairies he conquers her and kisses Aurora and breaks the curse.The film had mixed reviews when it first premiered and was a failure at the box office but a few decades later it has gotten more acclaim and is considered to be one of the best Disney films of all time. And does it hold up? Absolutely. Sure Princess Aurora and Prince Phillip are still really bland characters despite the solid voice work, singing, and the final battle revolving around Phillip (we'll get to that in a moment), but everything else is great.The story is well executed with lots of charm heart and atmosphere, the music including the song Once Upon A Dream and the final battle music where Phillip fights against Maleficent in dragon form is both epic and memorable, the side characters are entertaining particularly the three good fairies and the two kings, the animation style that resembles a tapestry is still gorgeous to this day, and Maleficent is still one of the best animated Disney Villains of all time. The idea of having a female evil satan is great and the late Eleanor Audley gave a solid voice performance with the best line deliveries ever.And last but not least the final battle between Phillip and Maleficent. It's epic it's intense it's unforgettable and with George Bruns dark and beautiful music score which fitted the terrifying moments really well including the part where Aurora gets hypnotized by Maleficent.Overall, Sleeping Beauty still remains as one of the best Disney films ever made. To those who haven't seen it yet I suggest you check it out and you will be enchanted.
Sure, I can understand why some people dislike the 'blank' princess Aurora or feel more entertained by funnier movies. But I will always have a great admiration for Sleeping Beauty - its animation is beyond words. The visual is so beautiful, elegant, and flawless that is simply fills all the scenaristic flaws. All these forest scenes, the handsome Philip, Aurora herself (as a fan of Audrey Hepburn I always think of her when I watch this Disney) : only one word can cover what is is : beautiful. 
I am more than impressed by the titanic work done on that movie. I also hope that one day, another Disney movie would adopt a similar graphic style, because this one is spectacular.
Timeless and delicate songs too, and Disney's best villain: the awesome Maleficent!
Copyright 1959 by Walt Disney Productions. New York opening at the Criterion: 17 February 1959. U.S. release through Buena Vista: March 1959. U.K. release through Walt Disney: 7 August 1959. Australian release through Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer: 24 December 1959. 75 minutes.SYNOPSIS: There is much rejoicing in the kingdom for a daughter is born to King Stefan and his queen. Both Stefan and visiting King Hubert, the ruler of a neighboring country, have long wished to unite their lands by the marriage of their children. On this occasion they announce the betrothal of young Prince Phillip to the infant Princess Aurora. Outside the castle, knights and their ladies, townspeople and peasants, join in a joyous processional. While the nobility are celebrating within the great hall, a shaft of light suddenly appears and floating down it come the tiny figures of three good fairies, Flora, Fauna and Merryweather. Waving their magic wands they bestow on the baby their favors: Flora, the gift of beauty; Fauna, the gift of song, but before Merryweather can bestow the gift of happiness, Maleficent, the evil witch, appears in a blinding flash of lightning. Angered at not being invited to the festivities she prophesies that before the sun sets on Aurora's sixteenth birthday she will prick her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel and die. NOTES: 'Sleeping Beauty', Walt Disney's $6,000,000 animated production in Technicolor and Technirama, is dormant in title only. Six years of sustained effort went into it. For Disney, who liked to tackle the impossible and usually achieved it, this cartoon feature was his most challenging. 'Hundreds of our top artists and craftsmen were involved in the picture' Disney declared at the time. 'It took a million drawings to bring 'Sleeping Beauty' to life on the screen.' The big screen imposed tremendous added labors on the artists. They had to move their characters in larger fields of action. They had to create different color schemes and a new landscape for the classic tale. The mathematical calculations became much more intricate. Every phase of artistry and mechanics which together comprise the art of animation, the art of drawing in motion, had to be revamped. 'In fact, the most difficult barrier for the artists was to keep them from covering old ground used in former cartoon classics — to keep their concepts fresh and talents sharp.' Directing animator Marc Davis handled both Sleeping Beauty herself (otherwise known as both Princess Aurora and Briar Rose) and Maleficent. Helene Stanley was the live model for Beauty, whilst Jane Fowler posed for Maleficent and Ed Kemmer for the Prince.Filmed in Technirama 70mm, 'Sleeping Beauty' was printed and projected anamorphically at an aspect ratio of 2.35:1. Initial worldwide film rentals gross returned only $5.3 million, a long way short of recouping the movie's $6 million negative cost, plus print, advertising and distribution overheads.COMMENT: This Disney DVD rates 10/10. The wide anamorphic screen is always full of movement. Absolutely chock-a-block. Never has the wide-wide screen been used so effectively — in either an animated or a live action film. Disney artistry at its super best, 'Sleeping Beauty' is an entertainment masterpiece.
Sleeping Beauty is a transitional film between the delicate, soft look from the 30s, 40s, and 50s and the sketchy, stylized films that were prominent in the 60s and 70s. The film has a stylized look, yet the characters yet the characters still have the soft lines. Sleeping Beauty is also a mess in some ways. The story is disjointed and unfocused at times. It's basically a rehash of Cinderella and Snow White. In fact some unused concepts from Snow White were used in this film. There are some great characters here though. The 3 fairies are fun and amusing. Bill Thomson does a great voice performance as King Hubert. Aurora is probably one of the most beautiful of the Disney heroines, yet despite being the title character, she doesn't have much screen time, even before she's put to sleep. The fairies that take care of her have the most screen time. Malifacent is one of the most interesting Disney villains. Eleanor Audley, who previously voiced Lady Tremaine in Cinderella, does a great performance. Another problem with the story is that there are too many dues ex machinas (the 3 fairies) which severely rob the story of its build up and climax. This can be summed up by the fact that when this was in production, Walt was busy working on Disneyland. Production went on for so long that it came to a point where Walt said, just finish the picture. This would also be the last fairy tale that the studio would do until The Little Mermaid thirty years later.
Just as his 'Snow White' (1937) was a cinematic breakthrough years before, Disney's 'Sleeping Beauty' is a masterpiece of animation. A visual wonder of vibrant color, and beautiful artwork.This feature sports some of the best characters from the studio's extensive cast. Among them, the three good fairies Flora, Fauna and Merryweather. They are humorous and endearing. The princess herself is also charming, and one of the better ones to come from the studio. Even the prince is notably better then his predecessors in 'Snow White' (1937) and 'Cinderella' (1950). One could say he and Aurora are equals, in that they both have developed personalities. The real star, however, is most certainly the evil Malificent, who electrifies the screen every moment she is on it.The music score is, of course, the well-known ballet, and it sounds wonderful in the film. Even the brief 'I Wonder' and 'Once Upon a Dream' are lovely. Memorable scenes include: the good fairies trying to prepare a birthday party without their magic, Aurora's meeting with Phillip in the forest, and the thrilling showdown between Malificent and the prince.A truly wonderful piece of art, and one of the best animated features. By all means, see it in it's full-width, stereophonic splendour.
Sleeping Beauty is absolutely one of the best Disney movies ever made, truely standing the test of time even now forty years after it's creation. The art work is lush and vibrant even by today's standards. Princess Aurora is one of the most beautiful of Disney's heroines, making it quite easy to see why the Prince would fall in love with her at first sight. But the real star of the movie is Maleficent. As a child, she was the only Disney baddie to ever truely scare me. She commits all these acts of pure evil and terror merely because she wants too. Not only is her curse terrifying but to actually think of the sixteen years of torture that the king and queen went through can make one realize just how manical Maleficent is. She is the best of all the Disney villians, certainly more so than the lackluster villian from Tarzan. This one is the ONE to compare all Disney movies by.
I saw this film as a small child and loved it in 1959. I did not see it again until 1979 - when I was able to appreciate it more on the Big Screen. I was thrilled. The score, from Tchaikovsky mostly, was magnificently adapted and a joy to hear, The animation was superb and often looked like a medieval painting in the backgrounds. Malefecent (and her crow) may have been the best villain ever in Disney animation - the kind who's so good we don't want her to die. The three fairies were charming, even if a bit derivative of the Seven Dwarfs. Aurora, the princess, was lovely; however, a problem was the prince who was devoid of personality, and there should have been some sparks between him and Aurora. Walt Disney was supposedly too busy with Disneyland to pay close enough attention to the production, but I don't buy that. Another minor problem is that the final battle scenes - especially on the Big Screen - are enough to scare adults; I doubt if little kids would enjoy it, although I did. I know they wouldn't appreciate the scoring or animation fine points. Sleeping Beauty has its devotees and even a web site, and no wonder. Too bad it's not as well appreciated as some. Despite a few small problems this is a charming, gorgeous movie and my favorite of all Disney's animations.
One poster wrote that the movie is 'flat.' I couldn't find a better term to fit my feelings, as well. It doesn't have the charm of the other princess movies. Aurora's voice doesn't fit the character; Mary Costa has a lovely voice but it's too mature for a supposed 16 year old character. The music sounds like it's being played in a tin can. It lacks the depth and beauty of other Disney movies. The story line doesn't flow; it's choppy, at best. The colors chosen are bland; they're not as vivid as the other movies. The movie itself is dark and dreary; I'm not sure if Walt Disney did this purposely or it was an oversight.My three year old loves this movie but I find it painful to watch. Unlike Cinderella or Snow White, which I've seen about 25 times each!
Sleeping Beauty is a disappointment for Disney. If it were the first animated feature ever made or even the first 'princess meets prince - falls in love - they live happily ever after' animated feature, it would be fairly decent. But compared with Cinderella and Snow White, Sleeping Beauty falls very far behind. The animation fluidity is very smooth, an improvement on Snow White, but that is where the magic ends. The backgrounds are less detailed, the extras on the screen are given little to no movement, and the color palette is mostly primary colors. The story is one we've all heard before, but no time is invested in the characters (save for the 3 fairies...who fail to delight) to spice things up. What made the fairy tales of Snow White and Cinderella so wonderful was the attention to detail, both in animation and characters. We got to know their personalities, their motivations, their quirks. For example, the magnificently drawn villain, Malificent, is given no reason for being bad. She just comes and lays a curse upon people and creates havoc because...well, I guess she just has nothing better to do... In this movie, Disney seems to be going through the motions. Take note: more time is given to showing the storybook flipping through the pages and more narration is used to move us through the plot. Had Disney focused less on the plot and more on the characters relating to each other, the movie would have been much more interesting. There is nothing in Sleeping Beauty that is original, nothing they haven't done better earlier. Such a pity this was the last movie Walt produced before he died. It was the end of their classic era. Even the music is lacking with the Princess Aurora song and the song between the 2 kings being some of the silliest music they ever recorded. Only one great tune (The Once Upon a Dream song) stands above the rest. They clearly knew that it was their one good song since it is sung over and over again throughout the movie. So why am I giving this movie a 5 and not lower? Because it is a competent movie. It is skillfully pieced together and flows smoothly. It will be a delight to children. On its own, it is decent. It pales in comparison to other great Disney films. Sleepy Beauty is a perfect example of a skilled studio cutting corners and putting out a product without a lot of love poured into it.
This is my absolute favorite Disney animated feature length film.This Disney classic animation feature concerns a cursed princess, a handsome prince, three good faeries who use Nature Magicks, and one of the best Disney villains of all time; evil personified is Maleficent. I must say that the 2-disk Special Edition is well worth the price if you can locate it. This went out of production and was pulled from shelves in January of 2004, so it may occupy a bit of your time to find it for sale. Upon viewing this as a child, I remember loving the story, but hating that the colors were all faded. It was as if the film it was on had grown thin. I was delighted to find a fully digitally remastered, Dolby digital 5.1 Surround Sound, THX edition with loads and loads of extras and the colors have all been restored!Maleficent having cursed the baby Aurora, our three heroines must find a way to reverse the curse. This movie has a little bit of everything including a fantastic dragon.This is one of the most beautiful Disney treasures within the Disney vaults. I highly recommend its viewing. It's one of the best full length Disney animated features.In its restored state, this movie receives a rousing 10/10 from...the Fiend :.
Princess Aurora is protected by three fairies because an evil witch has cast a curse on the young princess. Before she will turn sixteen she will fall asleep because she touches a spinning-wheel. The fairies try to make sure she will not get near one of those things. If she will fall asleep the only thing that can save her is a prince who kisses her.'Sleeping Beauty' is not as good or charming as the early Disney classics like 'Snow White', 'Dumbo' or 'Pinocchio' but it has some wonderful moments. The story is one of those stories we all know and Disney gives its own nice touch to it. With music adapted from Tchaikovsky's 'Sleeping Beauty Ballet' and some nice animation it is worth seeing, and for Disney fans may be more.
Not having watched Sleeping Beauty as a child, I hunkered down to this film with mediocre expectations at best. Surprisingly, even then it failed to impress me.Having heard such praise of Maleficent as 'she's the greatest villain ever!' I was disappointed by her easy defeat and emotionless portrayal. I found the three fairies Merryweather, Flora, and Fauna to be dry and uninteresting (they take up a good half of the movie and laughably are supposed to be the comic relief). The friendship between Sleeping Beauty and the animals felt too forced - doesn't Disney have any other way to convey a gentle and friendly persona? The one joke which made me smile was the pink-blue debacle. But for its 75 minute runtime, a few seconds of genuine entertainment was not worth it.The only aspect of this movie which constantly impressed me was the animation, which is fluid and beautiful. Clyde Geronimi did a wonderful job with that. However, other than animation, I find nothing to recommend of this movie. If you're looking to be emotionally attached to the characters, look elsewhere.
I appreciated one reviewer who said that they thought this film was perhaps targeted more to adults. As a child, I really didn't like this film and thought maybe it was just me, but over the years I've learned that others grew up feeling the same way. The prettier and more detailed Disney animation of the 30s and 40s here gives way to a much simpler and more garishly colored art style that screams 'MODERN'--but lacks charm. As for the film's plot and characters, aside from Maleficent, the rest are an incredibly dull and cheerless group. Princess whatsherface is dull and like too many Disney princesses, is way too passive--waiting for a hero-type to rescue her. All in all, I don't hate this film but there isn't much to make me like it, either. I have no idea why this film has achieved classic status other than it is old.
I chose to write a review of the Disney movie 'Sleeping Beauty', as it is disturbingly different from its origin. It is an adaptation of the fairytale by Charles Perrault, 'The Beauty in the Sleeping Wood'. The Disney version of the fairytale begins with Princess Aurora as a child. Her parents promise that she will marry Prince Phillip of the neighboring kingdom in order to unite the families. They have three fairies come to bless and give gifts to Aurora. The first gift is that of beauty, and the second is that of a beautiful voice. Before the third can be given, Maleficent, the mistress of all evil, arrives and is angry that she was not invited to Aurora's christening. She curses Aurora and says that before the night of her sixteenth birthday, she will prick her finger on a spinning wheel and die. Luckily, the third fairy had not given her gift to Aurora, so the third fairy says that instead of Aurora dying, she will fall into a deep sleep. This is where the Disney adaptation and the original fairy tale go their separate ways. In the Disney version, Aurora is brought by her aunts (the three fairies) to live in safety until her sixteenth birthday. However, she still pricks her finger and is cast into a deep sleep. Prince Phillip fights Maleficent, who turns herself into a dragon, and rescues Aurora by awakening her with a kiss. This is very different from the original version.In the original, Aurora pricks her finger and falls into a deep sleep. One day, the Prince happens by her home and knocks on the door. No one answers, so he climbs in through a window. There he finds Aurora. He tries to wake her, but she is unconscious. So, oddly and disturbingly enough, he proceeds to rape her. Aurora awakens after giving birth to twins. One of her babies tries to find her breast, but finds her finger instead. The baby sucks the splinter from the spinning wheel out of her finger, and Aurora wakes to find that she has two children. This is alarming to me, because she simply accepts her children and does not question their origin or legitimacy. Prince Phillip is married, and murmurs the children's names and Aurora's name in his sleep. The queen is furious, understandably. However, though her anger is understandable, she reacts in a disturbing way. She orders the cook to find and boil the children, so that they can be fed to Prince Phillip. The cook does not comply, and instead cooks two lambs. The queen taunts Phillip after he eats the lamb and tells him that he has eaten his own children. After this, the queen creates a fire in order to burn Aurora alive. Prince Phillip manages to stop this from happening and orders that the queen be put to death. And, oddly enough, Prince Phillip and Princess Aurora fall in love and get married. The difference between the Disney version and the original version are astoundingly different. I've never cared much for the Disney movie, mostly because I found it boring and cliché, even as a child. Though, now knowing the original version of the story, I can see why the movie would come off as boring. Disney clearly had to remove huge portions of the story in order to make it colorful, glossy, and suitable for children. In my honest opinion, I think that Disney should have left this one alone. The movie is superficial and contains no real message. The bulk of the story had to be removed, and, though what was removed was alarming, it leaves behind a well-worn, lifeless attempt at something lighthearted and magical.
I would never bring a Disney movie down, but I have to for Sleeping Beauty. It's just not that great compared to Cinderella and The Little Mermaid. Here's why...1)Maleficent has the worst plans ever! Like who would poison a baby just because she wasn't invited to a birthday party? It's not evil or harsh, just really stupid. I would understand if the good fairies turned her castle into cupcakes and rainbows or if her minions turn into happy elves who loves Christmas and sings dumb songs about coconuts and cats. I admit that the dragon scene is cool, but in all of reality, she's terrible2)Prince Philip did NOT stab Maleficent. If those good fairies were not by his side, Maleficent in dragon form would have stepped on him like if he was an ant, burn him to a crisp, or eat him like he was tootsie rolls. The fairies put the curse on the sword and killed the dragon.3)Aurora doesn't do anything expect when she dances with the prince 2 times. I find her so boring to watch and she's my least favorite Disney princess. She's also very stupid. Doesn't she know how sharp the tip of the spindle wheel gets? Why did the fairies not teach her about the spindle wheel? This reminds me of a time where some guy told me to take some pot and it's good for your body. If Aurora was in this situation, she would be a pot addict. Let's get back to the subject4)The first scene where the people came for Aurora's Christening scares me. I don't know why, it just does. It's not even Maleficent, it's just the music and the poor animation combined which makes it look freaky.I really don't know what to say about this movie. It's just bad. If Maleficent has good logic and all that, she would be the only thing I like about this movie. Hopefully Angelina Jolie will be better as her in 2014. I doubt that
It probably is, followed by Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast and The Little Mermaid. Just some weeks ago, I watched this movie for first time in like, 3-4 years? I always loved this movie, but this time I was stunned on how good it really is. Not only did it surprise me how great the movie is, but it made me watch many other Disney movies and realize how great they also are.Probably everything about this movie is excellent, especially Maleficent. She used to frighten me as a little kid (in a positive way) and she still is. The movie is combined with all things I usually want in a Disney movie; romance, adventure, humor and singing. One song from this movie I especially love is 'Once Upon A Dream', it's my favorite Disney song along with 'A Whole New World' from Aladdin.The reason I didn't give this 10/10 is that 10 always means perfect, and there really is no perfect movie out there today. Even though this movie is a masterpiece, there's some things I have to criticize. First off, Aurora should been more on-screen in my opinion. More romance scenes between Aurora and Philip wouldn't hurt. Secondly, when the movie is over, you wish it weren't :( One last thing for those who wonder: Yes, there are guys that likes Disney, including this movie. I'm a male myself.
The phrase 'style over substance' comes up often in criticism, and Disney's SLEEPING BEAUTY is no exception. The story is admittedly-thin, and the characters are fairly shallow. The title character, Princess Aurora, is really a supporting character, and it's the three fairies who instead carry the story. The great 'romance' of the movie consists of one awkward conversation between the prince and princess, and then they live happily ever after once she awakens, without saying so much as a word.But I don't say this as a condemnation. The old Disney fairy tales were never known for their depth. In fact, I would say it wasn't until BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, THE LION KING, POCAHONTAS, and THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME that Disney animation really began to have depth of plot and far more developed female characters. Audiences themselves have matured over time.What does make SLEEPING BEAUTY stand out is its stylized approach. The animation resembles medieval paintings, the music is by Tchaikovsky, and the tone of the narrative is lyrical and sombre. Take a scene where Aurora sings with the animals. This scene of course is a Disney convention (the recent film ENCHANTED poked fun of it). But frankly, this time the scene is superior to its counterpart in SNOW WHITE or Cinderella, due to the haunting quality of the song 'I Wonder' and Mary Costa's ethereal vocals. The entire sequence is hypnotic, and resembles a ballet more than a cartoon. It is soon followed by a stand alone sequence worthy of a standing ovation, in which Aurora falls under an enchantment, bathed in a sinister green glow, making her way towards the cursed spinning wheel.But no review of this movie is ever complete without a mention of one character who I've been saving. As many have said before me, Maleficent remains the best villain in the Disney canon. She is not goofy or slapstick-ish as later Disney villains became, but calm and calculating. To me, her best scene is one where she is not even doing something menacing, but instead shows her restrained sadism; she visits the imprisoned prince and shows him a vision of his likely future, mentally tormenting him. As she exits the cell, she comments that she will now sleep well for the first time in sixteen years. Such was the extent of her obsession of power.As a kid, not only was I scared of her; I was scared of even looking at the video box cover, just because she was in the bottom right corner! At a mere 75 minutes, this movie holds everything that made the Disney legacy worthwhile. It has humor, darkness, enchantment, and a sense of wonder at a world we will never inhabit. It is a sleeping beauty to behold.
What more can I say than what is said above? Sleeping Beauty is the perfect Disney animated feature. I have loved it since I was a small boy and have never stopped loving it. It has the perfect musical score (adapted from Tchaikovsky), absolutely gorgeous Technicolor, and was shot in Technirama. Much as I love other Disney films from this early period, this one still stands out as being the most beautiful and least dated. It is simply a beauty to behold, and needs to be seen more often. On the dress front, I always thought Aurora looked better in blue. 'Nuff said.
To state the obvious, the animation in this movie is some of the most beautiful in any Disney feature. The story while simple is timeless and engaging. The original story brought fantasy and wonder to little girls and boys alike. This film does the same for all who watch it. The comedy in this film was surprisingly good and clever for the simple story and characters. The characters are all equally memorable, with some standouts such as the fairy's and Sleeping Beauty herself. However, easily the most memorable and maybe the most iconic character/villain in all of Disney depending on who you ask is the absolute show stopper, Maleficent. This Villain is intimidating, scary and clever all at once. The finale of this picture is ingrained in all minds of Disney watchers. The music while few and far between is elegant and beautiful. The only issue with this film is Prince Phillip. He lacks dialogue and is mostly just there to drive the plot, Disney seemed to miss the mark to give him any real character traits. Overall, this movie is a must watch and should be in any animated film lovers regular watch rotation.
A princess has a curse placed upon her by an evil fairy.This is an enjoyable Disney version of classic fairytale with strong animation and some memorable sequences.The plot is quite thin as the fairytale is stretched out to last a feature length movie and contains a lot of similar structure and imagery to 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarves'. It starts and finishes strongly but I found it quite slow and a bit meandering in the middle.I enjoyed the animation. As you can imagine with Disney it is bright, beautifully coloured and full of spectacle. The design of Maleficent is excellent and all scenes involving her character are exceptionally well done. I love the curse scene, the spinning wheel sequence and the colour changes during the moments after true love's kiss.Ultimately Disney plays it safe by sticking with a proven formula. As far a Disney Princess characters go, Arora is yet another example of a female one ambition in life: find a man. As bad a role model as this might be for little girls, they will probably enjoy every minute of it as mine did.For me it is a 7.5/10 but I round upwards.
I saw it on a VHS tape in the 1990s, and I loved its humor and kissing!!!!
In terms of script it is more of the same, but we have an iconic villain, beautiful animation (taking into account its release year), wonderful soundtrack and well-built characters. As I said Sleeping Beauty in terms of a script is nothing new (especially in a contemporary look) but is sweet and fun.Film reviewed on January 20, 2021.
So beautiful, the reason I like about this movie is that the main character who is a princess had only 18 lines and and very low screen time. But she impresses us with her beautiful songs and character. That's why this is a 'Disney classic'.
Like Princess Aurora herself, Sleeping Beauty's gifts are its incredible visual and musical beauty, along with a foreboding curse of darkness.The early Disney films look amazing. And Sleeping Beauty is a peak of sorts, at least in terms of style. It may not have quite as much movement or been as groundbreaking as Snow White or Pinocchio, but it has such a clean, pristine look along with detailed backgrounds and just generally gorgeous animation.The budget was more than double the other Disney films of the 50s. And even though it was generally a success, especially in the long run on VHS and other formats, Sleeping Beauty was initially a big loss for the studio. Partially because of this, Disney turned to a cheaper method called xerography for 101 Dalmatians in 1961 and it shows. Their movies of the 60s and 70s look noticeably worse - much scratchier and with seemingly unfinished, messy backgrounds. In contrast, Sleeping Beauty holds up extremely well.The music is of course based on Tchaikovsky's ballet. I'm not how much it was edited or rewritten, but it works really well. Every moment is musically interesting and memorable, which is rare - I know it off by heart. 'Once Upon a Dream' is one of my favourite Disney songs and there are many great ones.The story is not particularly rich and it does have its plot holes. For instance, why does Aurora need to be whisked away for 16 whole years? Couldn't they have hidden her just a week or two before her birthday? And couldn't they have delayed her 16th birthday? Just pretend her birthday is a week later - the truth can be explained afterwards. Or lock her in a room just for that day. It seems to be overkill to destroy every spinning wheel in the kingdom, especially since Maleficent can apparently produce one out of thin air. Since Merryweather had partially countered the spell, why not just accept that she'll prick her finger and make sure she finds true love before then? As it is, their 16th birthday celebrations get out of hand and attract Maleficent's attention.It's also not clear what Maleficent's deal is. Couldn't she just attack at any time? Why is she evil? Can't the fairies also just use powers whenever they need to? What exactly are the rules? But these kinds of flaws are common in fantasy and especially fairy tales. You have to suspend disbelief and focus on the journey, the symbolism and the morals.I think people are too harsh saying that Aurora is boring. She might not be complex, but like Cinderella and Snow White she is pure and good. She doesn't get much screentime so she's not even really the focus of the story. Like most Disney classics, the original story is padded with physical comedy - Cinderella with mice, birds and a cat, Sleeping Beauty with the 3 fairies, a drunk jester and drunk kings and a horse.There's also an exciting action climax which really is epic, especially on a big screen. It's such a mythic concept - a lone knight cutting through a thorned forest to then face off against a dragon.Sleeping Beauty is not a deep or substantial film in terms of story, dialogue or philosophy. But it is beautiful and very funny. The way Aurora dances is awesome - every frame of the movie holds up and could be a painting hung on a wall. It all flows together so smoothly as well. They didn't just use computers back then and Disney magic wasn't yet a cliche. They had real actors performing the movements as a reference and the time they spent shows. Robin Hood in 1973 recycles animation from Snow White and The Jungle Book. Disney had ups and downs in terms of creativity and integrity.I have many favourite parts of this movie. The moment when Aurora realises she's not alone is priceless. The fairies competing to change her dress colour never fails to make me laugh - apparently it came about because of actual disagreements behind the scenes as to what her dress colour should be. Maleficent going mad at her bumbling henchmen/monsters having checked all the cradles for 16 years is also hilarious. 'Idiots! Imbeciles!One more example: the king insists that Phillip must marry Aurora, but he wants to marry a girl he just met. The king is stressed and angry but later suddenly finds out that Phillip now wants to marry Aurora. He's completely baffled. There's no possible way this can make sense. But then he just lets it go. Whatever, he doesn't need to understand, as long as everything is resolved. It's easy to gloss over, but I find that whole concept hilarious.
When I was a little girl, Sleeping Beauty was my all time favorite Disney film. I was so in love with this story, it's crazy how many times I wore out the VHS. But growing up, I lost touch with the story, but I recently bought the DVD and re-watched the film and you know what? I'm still in love with this movie. I really miss these old Disney movies where the animation was so bright and beautiful, the characters were so lovable, and the story was so magical. I'm not bashing Disney films from today, just I'm sure we could all relate on this subject where the older Disney films just had a certain charm about it. Sleeping Beauty is just a timeless story and has so much wonderful romance, I guess since I'm a girl, I just couldn't help but still be in love with this beautiful story.Princess Aurora is born and is the future queen of her land, three fairy's, Flora, Merryweather, and Fauna bless her with three gifts: beauty and song, right as Merryweather is about to bless Aurora, the evil witch, Maleficent, comes in and curses Aurora that she shall touch a spinning wheel by her 16th birthday and die! Merryweather changes it to where she won't die, but sleep and could only be woke up by the kiss of true love. The fairy's wish to keep this from happening still, so they take Aurora and raise her as their own. One day Aurora on her 16th birthday goes out in the forest and meets the charming and handsome Prince Phillipe, but she doesn't know he's a prince and she doesn't know he's fhe man she's actually betrothed too. She is told by the fairy's that she can never see him again and that she's a princess; later that night the curse happens! Now the fairy's need Phillipe to save Aurora before it's too late.Everything about Sleeping Beauty is just a perfect Disney film and I can't wait until to show this to my future kids one day. I know that their generation is going to have just the CGI animation, so it's good that at least we still have these films, they're treasures. The voices, the animation, the story, Sleeping Beauty is the most romantic fairy tale that anyone could easily fall in love with. If you are a Disney fan, this is a must see, it's a great family film or if you're just a film buff in general, I'm a grown up and I still tear up when I watch Sleeping Beauty.10/10
Sleeping Beauty (1959) :
Brief Review -Another Wondrous Piece in Disney's Animated Amusement Park. Long Live Princess Aurora and Long Live Sleeping Beauty. Sleeping Beauty is a sweet tale of a princess named Aurora who is cursed by Evil witch Maleficent. Only the first kiss of true love can break the curse hence Price Phillips must fight Maleficent. This was Disney's first feature film that did not have the same background animation material, but instead it had new background animation material. This amusing tale and fantastic world of Disney gets a Perfect Happy Ending to end this film on a satisfying note. One of the major factor why this film keeps you on edge of your seat is the runtime of simply 75 minutes. How Intelligible it could have got? The visuals are fantastic and musicals are pleasing as far as the potential and time space was concerned. Sleeping Beauty is blessed by simplicity that hits the right chords. Many complex films and technical spectacular attempt fails because of lacking simplicity. The connect i made with the film was truly fascinating and that too in just first 5 minutes. You see, when the film begins and you start feeling like that you are in a fantasy world and you start believing everything happening there, this feeling must occur for the film to have worked and it occurs while watch Sleeping Beauty. I heard that the film was a moderate success when released (may be because Hollywood was making Huge spectacles then, like Ben-Hur, The Ten Commandments) but gained popularity in re-releases and today this film stands as One of those Top 10 Biggest Animated Hits of all Time. Believe it or not, for adjusted inflation Sleeping Beauty is Bigger Hit than 'Avengers : Infinity War'. Disney had made several Animated classics before making this but still Sleeping Beauty doesn't disappoint at all. It's wonderful and tasty. Do taste it of you really like Disney's animated flicks from old days.RATING - 7/10*By - #samthebestest
Another solid effort from the opening decades of Disney.I found the premise to 'Sleeping Beauty' enjoyable. There are better stories out there, but this one featuring Princess Aurora and Prince Phillip is decent. Those two are noteworthy here, but Maleficent is the most interesting.The voices for Aurora and Phillip are done by Mary Costa and Bill Shirley, while Maleficent is voiced by Eleanor Audley; the latter is the standout, just like in 'Cinderella'... she's good at playing the villain! Aside from those three, there isn't much depth to the rest of the characters.The animation seems, at least to me, to be inferior in parts of this film. A lot of the terrain in the forest looks blocky, it is seemingly a different style used compared to their preceding eight productions - or maybe it's just something I noticed more here than in any other.3* for me, worth watching.
Although a bit old-fashioned, but still is the childhood memories, when I was young think Aurora is the most beautiful princess
Very good movie, but live action with angelina Jolie is better. This is awesome history
It's got its bad archaic bits (a 16-year old getting non-consensually kissed by and married to a guy who looks like he's 30, for one) and some sleepy ones too (the entire sequence in the forest) but the fairies' surprisingly strong role in the action climax as well as their comedic chemistry (shout out to the drunk bard too) help counter them. The excellent villain and underlying thread of dramatic irony in the dual identities of the 'stranger' and the 'peasant girl' are nice additions as well.
Really nostalgic for this movie. The balletic score is a character all to itself, one whom I want to meet over and over again. The storybook visual style seems to obey a golden ratio of simplicity and detail, rewarding the viewer with edges both round and sharp. Every single character is distinct, personable, and flawed in some lovable way. And the score perfectly matches those personalities.This time around, I watched the movie in Spanish to improve my grasp of the language. Pleased to report that the voice acting is just as good en español.
The animation's amazing and the characters are fun to watch while the main character doesn't have much of a personality. In fact she's barely in the movie at all. After getting cursed by Maleficent during her christening the three fairies take her in to protect her. She grows into a beautiful woman who meets a prince. What makes this interesting is that the prince has more of a character and bigger role than the previous movies. The king has more even more character and screen time than his son. The main antagonist Maleficent is probably the highlight. Her vile nature solidified her as one of the best villains of all time. As a classic it's ok. If you have little kids or are a Disney fan i'd say check it out.
This movie goes out of its way to look different and distinguish itself from other previous Disney films of the same genre with powerful and colorful picturesque settings, while adhering to an established successful plot line.Sleeping Beauty gives me the pinnacle of what a Disney movie should be, it is not dragging, or too fast paced. There is no prolonged back story, while at the same time not jumping plot lines. Songs also don't interfere with the plot, instead bolstering the story. There are no random 'lets just stop everything and get the entire village to star singing and dancing' scenes, which I always felt took me out of the movie.Furthermore, this movie is not really about Sleeping beauty (Aurora) herself, or Prince Phillip- the supposed main characters. Instead we follow the 3 fairies battle Maleficent- perhaps one of the greatest villains in Disney. Seriously- she is pure evil. Anyway, this battle of good vs evil is classic Disney, with their themes of 'true love'trying to prevail evil.My only downside is not having the characters be developed more, but otherwise, my all time favorite Disney film!10/10
This is one of my favorite Disney movies of all time. I like the princess, I like the villain, and Phillip is at least my second favorite Disney prince. Aurora is nobody's fool and her voice is too low to shatter glass, Phillip actually has a personality, and it's a funny, charismatic one, and Maleficent is a masterpiece. She's so elegant and vindictive, and I feel bad for her because her minions are pretty worthless. The only thing I don't like about this movie is that Maleficent's presence makes it kind of uneven. She's so cool, and the good fairies are just kind of silly. The songs aren't as good as later Disney flicks, mostly because they only really had one song, and they knew it.
sleeping beauty is the best movie ever! it has an awesome soundtrack. so much detail is in every scene. everything about this movie is great. my favorite part is when flora fauna and merryweather are baking the cake and making the dress for aurora (briar rose) for her 16 birthday. its so funny and cute!
I watched this film as a child in England during the mid 70's in a Theater and upon seeing it again recently I can't help but wonder if there isn't a slightly longer / theatrical version that existed. I seem to recall that there was a part in the beginning where you see the kings invitations for the birth of the Princess get delivered to the fairies house and one of the 4 invitations to the fairies falls under the rug as they fall into the mail slot by the front door. As a result of this mistake, the formerly good Maleficent becomes bitter and vengeful over what she thinks was a deliberate snub by the King. This is really bugging me as I've looked all over IMBD for a clue! Does anyone remember this who might of seen this film years ago in a theater and not the more recently released versions available on DVD and VHS and laserdisc? Please let me know! Thanks!
I love this movie, I have a collection of all the Sleeping Beauty merchandise that I can get my hands. This movie is the pinnacle of animation. The color, detail and design are exquisite. This movie is the most wonderful romantic and lovely movie that I have ever seen.
Sleeping Beauty is one of the all-time animation greats! There's no denying it. But some people dare to think of it as badly animated!The movie is beautifully animated! It's supposed to look like a medieval Gothic painting (which it does) and most of Disney's subsequent movies up till 'The Little Mermaid' failed to look even half as good! The animation is fluent, the expressions real, each character is realistic.Knock the story (a great one if not a bit too sweet), knock the voice-acting (you would be liar if you did!), knock the occasionally annoying soundtrack, but the animation is perfect!ONE MAJOR PROBLEM:Sleeping Beauty was in production for six years. Why? Because they spend days on the medieval back-grounds because the were filming it in 70mm! 70mm film! If it is filmed in that ratio, then why are most DVDs issued in full-screen with no option for full-screen?Oh, how it pains the mind!But other than that; enjoy!
Well I can't say enough about this great film. The story alone is one of our greatest treasures. I think everyone knows the story by now. I just want to tell you why I love this film so much! The characters are fun and so funny. Walt Disney out done himself with this one! It still holds up to today animation.Just see this great animated film. You will not be disappointed. Out of 4 stars I give it 4 stars. Enjoyable for the whole family!
My personal opinion was, of course, that this classic fairy tale has been a best-seller for over much many years ago and perhaps the most Disney's wonderful success. But I'd want to do an adaptation on this movie and for that reason I'd proceed to all the necessary legal procedures to make it legally in both the Greek and Cypriot markets. Anyway, one of the almost Disney's sneakiest scoundrels that appeared on most of Walt's movies was the evil spurned witch Maleficent with his quite often malicious raven, Diablo. As you've noted, in the Greek version of the movie, Maleficent was voiced by Greek theater and TV actress Anna Makraki, which take his voice by Eleanor Audley, who died at Northern Hollywood, California (USA), in August 25th, 1991, due to an respiratory failure.Oh, and I'll have noted my Maleficent's favorite quotes: 'Listen well, all of you! The princess shall indeed grow in grace and beauty, beloved by all who know her. But, before the sun sets on her sixteenth birthday, she shall prick her finger on the spindle of a spinning wheel and die!','It's incredible, sixteen years and not a trace of her! She couldn't have vanished into thin air. Are you sure you searched everywhere?','Fools! Idiots! Imbeciles!..... Oh, they're hopeless. A disgrace to the forces of evil. My pet, you are my last hope. Circle far and wide, search for a maid of sixteen with hair of sunshine gold and lips red as the rose. Go! And do not fail me.','Touch the spindle. Touch it I say! You poor simple fools... Thinking you could defeat me, me, the mistress of all evil. Well, here's your precious princess!!!','Well, this is a pleasant surprise. I set my trap for a peasant, and lo! I catch a prince! Away with him. But gently, my pets, gently, I have plans for our royal guest...','What a pity prince Phillip can't be here to enjoy the celebration. Come, we must go to the dungeon and cheer him up.','Oh come now, prince Phillip. Why so melancholy? A wondrous future lies before you. You, the destined hero of a charming fairy tale come true. Behold, King Stefan's castle, and in yonder topmost tower, dreaming of her true love, the princess Aurora. But see the gracious whim of fate. Why, 'tis the self same peasant maid, who won the heart of our noble prince but yesterday. She is indeed most wondrous fair. Gold of sunshine in her hair, lips that shame the red, red rose. In ageless sleep she finds repose. The years roll by, but a hundred years to a steadfast heart are 'bout a day. And now, the gates of the dungeon part, and the prince is free to go his way. Off he rides on his noble steed ... a valiant figure, straight and tall, to wake his love with love's first kiss, and prove that true love conquers all... Come, my pet. Let us leave our noble prince with these happy thoughts. A most gratifying day. For the first time in sixteen years I shall sleep well.','Silence! You, tell those fools to ... !!!??? No! No!','A forest of thorn shall be his tomb! Born through the skies on a fog of doom! Now go with the curse and serve me well, Round Stefan's castle cast by spell!','No, it cannot be!.... Now shall you deal with me, old prince, and all the powers of HELL!!!!'. In this last quote, the witch was transformed into an evil fire-breathing dragon that provoked the fury of Flora, which chanted to Phillip's magic sword: 'Now sword of truth fly swift and sure, That evil die and good endure!'. It was already known to all that Phillip throwed the sword at the dragon, which is hit deadly and collapsed, screaming!!!
Sleeping Beauty is one of Walt Disney's greatest films made. The background scenery, although said by critics to be domineering is wrong. The background is beautiful and creates the elegant surroundings for a heartwarming classic. The music is beautifully adapted by George Bruns from Tchaikovsky's elegant ballet, and songs are sung wonderfully by Mary Costa. Maleficent is one of Disney's best villains and is voice by the brilliant Eleanor Audley, who was also the voice of Lady Tremaine (Evil Stepmother) in Cinderella. Sleeping Beauty is an incredible movie that will delight everyone.
a few **SPOILERS**Ever since I was little I loved this movie.I love thecolour use in the forest scenes with princess Aurora and the woodlandanimals.The music is from the ballet 'Sleeping Beauty' and is perfectlyarranged to suit the mood and atmosphere.My favourite song is 'Once upona Dream' which Aurora sings about how she met her dream prince who soonjoins in later on.My favourite character is Malificent,the wonderfullyvoiced and animated villainess.I love her menacing laugh and the sceneswhere she fights prince Philip as a fire-breathing dragon.Anotherfavourite part of the movie for me was when the good fairies wherestruggling to make a cake and dress for Aurora's sixteenth birthdaywithout the use
This is my favourite of all the Disney movies.  It's the funniest (thanks to the three good fairies) and Maleficent is easily the greatest and most evil Disney villain to date.  No other villain comes close.  The music is great and the feeling is wonderful.  It is often underrated but shouldn't be. It deserves to be considered one of the greatest Disney films, if not the best.See it now if you have not.  You will not be disappointed.
For fans of Sleeping Beauty, the latest DVD release from Disney- one of their 'Platinum' editions with 2 discs and games and so on- is worth full price. It gives the fans a chance to see the film as it was originally intended for theaters, in a 2:20:1 aspect ratio (even slimmer than 2:35, think the aspect ratio of Ben-Hur for comparison), and all of the cinematic detail, of the backgrounds and the characters in the foreground, is all there with digitally restored picture and sound. If nothing else, even as I didn't care for the film itself very much, it is worth sort of rejoicing. Sort of.I didn't like the movie (!) Yes, not by a lot. Compared to the other Disney films of the period, even with the other Princess films (Snow White and Cinderella, even if they aren't princesses all the way through), this one falls short. The main characters are bland, even by Disney standards which for protagonists, ESPECIALLY the male prince characters, are without personality. Watching these characters do little on screen but prance in the woods and immediately fall in love just made me think fondly of other Disney films, including the 'new' crop from the past twenty years like The Little Mermaid and Aladdin, which have similar fantastic stories and one-dimensional leads only given more personality and depth and flaws.It's like Disney and his team took a lot of the elements from past films and cobbled them together. It's not that the film is even all bad, far from it. Any time Maleficent or her troll-like minions come on screen, or when the movie by proxy of her evil magic gets dark, suddenly the movie comes alive. Particularly so this happens when Princess Aurora, left alone in the room by her three good-hearted but dim-witted magic women, goes up the staircase following a green light in a trance (Vertigo, anyone?) And of course things are often beautifully animated, such as those backgrounds and the matte paintings. Other times- and I know I may get crap for this- it looks oddly cheap, dated.There is magic stuff here, and classic moments, and a scene with the two kings as they get drunk that's actually quite funny and lively and feels entertaining. But the rest of the film is a sort of plastic farce, where characters do stupid (or just Disney-generic) things and it takes so long to get to better parts that aren't clouded by ill-logic (i.e. the making-everyone-in-the-kingdom-asleep trick that seems kind of, I dunno, wrong on some level seeing it all grown up). Perhaps for kids it works much better, or for those who are only looking for some of the 'classic' Disney animation in full widescreen. But so much of it is lacking in ways that just elude me, and make me want to go back to the other Disney classics for better results.
This was a disappointment for me. Perhaps it was because I saw it on DVD, but the whole thing just didn't work. The animation appeared square and blocky. Both Sleeping Beauty and her bland prince were sugary sweet and completely boring. The much touted action climax with a fiery dragon was alright but hardly worth all the hype. Most of the film deals wit the three kindly fairy godmothers. They are pleasant to watch, although much of their dialog is superfluous to the plot. One plus point: the music. I will probably give this a second watch to see why others praise it so much.Overall 6/10
I have mixed feelings about this movie.For one thing, I know we wouldn't have a Sleeping Beauty castle in Disneyland, which I've been too a lot lately, since it's the 50th Anniversary celebration, and I know that the Firework's display is excellent, with the special effects on the castle.The music is 100% stupid. It sounds like it was recorded in a garbage truck. No offense to Mary Costa, but it went completely overboard with the 'I Know You,' bit. My 13-year old sister used to sing that song all the time, and it was dreadfully annoying. Luckily, she doesn't sing it much anymore.Even without the songs, it would be bad. I just don't think it was 100% well-done.A few voices could have been changed, the songs could have been cut, amidst a hundred other things.My score: 4/10.
This movie was so boring until the very ending. The music is forgettable and Aurora (Sleeping Beauty) is the worst Disney princess she has nothing going for her in anyway. Her voice isn't too good, her looks don't really stand out and she has no character development I mean she's only in 18 minutes of the film. This was wasted potential she could have been better if they tried. The only thing that saves this movie from being utter trash is Maleficent. Her humor I funny and she is a delight to watch as well as watching the prince go out to save the princess. Trust me all you have to do is watch the first 10 mins and the skip to the last 30 mineutes and you will perfectly fine.
Disney version of the fairy tale. Princess Aurora is born and cursed (for no real reason) by evil Maleficent to die on her 16th birthday. Three fairies--Flora, Fauna and Merryweather--lessen the curse to just make her sleep, not die. Aurora grows up protected by the three fairies and then meets tall, handsome Prince Phillip--on her 16th birthday. They immediately fall in love but the curse comes to pass. Aurora falls into a deep sleep and only the kiss of the prince can awaken her. Phillip is set on awakening Aurora but he'll have to fight Maleficent to get her.This took six YEARS and millions of dollars to make. It was also the first animated movie to be released in widescreen (called Technirama 70). However it was not a hit critically or commercially...and it's easy to see why. The story is vague with plot holes and continuity lapses galore. The palace scenes are incredibly annoying. The main characters move fluidly but all the background characters don't move an inch. They look like what they are--drawings. The characters are either annoying (the fairies), bland (Aurora and especially Phillip) or just evil for no reason (Maleficent). On the plus side most of the animation is great and takes full advantage of the wide screen (do NOT see this in a pan and scan version). A highlight is the final battle between Phillip and Maleficent. The songs are tuneful (if forgettable) and the score is just fantastic. Also Maleficent is a great Disney villainess.So it is a very good Disney film but no classic.

**** *YEAR_1960

This is a beloved Disney Classic for a reason.Lovely storytelling, catchy songs, and some nice vocal performances.Yes, it's a bit slow at times, and I actually prefer the live action version with Glenn Close, but on the whole this is an enjoyable enough film.
I loved parts of those movie, and I didn't love other parts. It's occasionally beautiful, and occasionally kind of childish. A fine movie.
I don't think it was well-written because, at some points, the movie gets redundant. Overall, it's a Disney classic, warms your heart and it's a great pick to pass time.
A rather simple and shorter story (1 hour and 20 min) based on a book from 1950s. It is very animal-centric, and humans don't really play much of a part in it. It's cute, it's good!
We watched this as part of our family movie night and the kiddo was enthralled. While I find this one doesn't have a lot of stuff to keep the adults entertained, personally the nostalgia of it helps stay my focus.I find this old school type of movie to be a slow burn leading up to the action which is perfect for my kiddo as she is easily frightened. The only thing I would warn parents about is they throw the word idiot around a lot in the movie and for those trying to teach their young ones not to say mean things etc this one came up a lot. Other than that would totally recommend this, the music is fun, the villians are great and there is lots of action once it gets going.
I've recently been watching some of the more famous Disney movies again and this is one of the few (along with Pinocchio) that i enjoyed and that i think stands up to repeated viewings. I noticed how weak some of the other ''classic'' Disney movies are, they might have good animation but they lack substance and don't really have much of a storyline to them, i wouldn't watch them again but i would watch this one and Pinocchio again. This movie doesn't have the most amazing story either but what it does have is Cruella De Vil, one of the most hilarious and outrageous villains. I wish she had been given more screen time, its nearly always the villains that steal the show but don't get enough screen time.Best scene for me when Cruella is trying to use a pen that isn't working so she shakes it about violently and shouts out ''BLAST THIS PEN! BLAST THIS WRETCHED, WRETCHED PEN!'' and covers Roger in ink in the process. She then has a further tantrum when he tells her he isn't selling the puppies to her.
One Hundred and One Dalmatians (1961) is a movie my daughter and I recently watched together on Disney+. The storyline for this focuses on a young couple with a couple Dalmatians that have puppies. When the puppies are stolen by an eccentric rich lady who wants to use their fur for coats, both the humans and parents get nervous. When the humans take too long to find the puppies the parents and their dog friends take matters into their own hands. This movie is directed by Clyde Geronimi (Cinderella), Hamilton Luske (Pinocchio) and Wolfgang Reitherman (The Sword and the Stone) and contains the voices of Rod Taylor (The Birds), Betty Lou Gerson (Cinderella), J. Pat O'Malley (Alice in Wonderland) and Frederick Worlock (Spartacus). The humans in this from top to bottom, both good guy and bad guy, are so well set-up, depicted and executed from beginning to end. How can you not love Cruella and her thieves in this? They were excellent. The parent dogs and animal friends along the way are very good; but to be honest, I never connected to the Dalmatians themselves, which always kept this a step down from the absolute Disney classics for me. Is this a great movie that is a must see? Absolutely. Is it a top 5-10 Disney movie? Probably not. I would score this an 8/10.
I saw this at the cinema upon release when I was 10. I realise now that it was the first feature-length Disney cartoon I ever watched. And I was totally smitten. For a start it was 'British.' (O. K. set in a stylised Hollywood version of London) With all the characters, except the puppies, having English accents. Secondly, the plot was exciting, with 99 Dalmatian puppies destined to become fur coats! . Thirdly, the characters were wonderful. Each one has its own particular appeal. Resourceful kitty Sgt Tibbs is my favourite. Ever practical; he is the action arm of the trio which also includes The Colonel, a sheepdog and Captain, a horse. Tibbs orchestrates the escape of the kidnapped puppies, initiating the funniest scene where the murderous efforts of henchmen Jasper and Horace are thwarted.Who could fail to be in fear of Cruella De Ville? The absolute distillation of overbearing bad manners ('Anita D-a-a-h-ling!'); casually stubbing out a designer cigarette in a proffered cupcake! I think Roger would have had some legal problems with his funny song about her. And her car! What a machine! Her mad driving matched her demeanour, and I recall my little brother flinching at the closeup of her face with the glowing red eyes as she frantically made one final vain effort to recapture the puppies.Infinitely superior to the live action remakes. I haven't watched it for a while. Think I'll order me a DVD and some ice-cream.
In this movie we follow Pongo, Pedirta and their 101 Dalmatians and many more including scene stealing Cruella DeVille. The animation is stunning with all the spots, the London and suburb backgrounds and Cruellas expressions. 101 Dalmatians did not win any Oscars or Globes, but rows and rows of 101 toys and spinoffs followed including Cruella this summer while cinemas opens again, as firefighting Dalmatians are all the rage today with Paw Patrol. No 60s masterpiece, but find this in the bargain bin on VHS if you and your family praises vintage Disney.
Get yourself a Pongo: he's the best wingman and the best player.Watching this to prepare for the upcoming Cruella movie. For a short movie, I was surprised that there was solid tension and thriller. Also, the beginning was very cute and made me smile. The animation, even though it was in 1961, was decent and well drawn.Overall, a very entertaining Disney movie. Cruella was one crazy hag, and now I'm excited to see the movie about her upcoming. 8/10.
This movie is amazing because the animation is so realistic and different; some of of the color is outside this lines and you can still see some pencil lines. In the art department... totally would give it a six star if I could. As far as character development and character personality, you can totally feel what they feel and see the sadness or happiness in their faces. The animation is so impeccable and moving that you can relate to the characters and see their points of view. So as far as the characters this movie, again, six stars. And of course we have the villain. Cruella DeVil is such an easy person to hate and loathe, and that is what makes her such a great villain. She doesn't waver or switch sides and sometimes that would be great, but in this case her pure evilness ties the whole movie together. So villains, this round you get five stars. Overall, this movie would get six stars. Amazing job, Disney..
I'm not a big fan of dogs and I can not like it, but in this animation I approached them and interacted with them. While in the outside world you still do not like them! The character Cruella de Vil is uniquely created and is one of the best villains in the history of animation. This animation also has deep meanings such as sacrifice and humanity. I suggest you see it.
101 Dalmatians is one of my favorite stories of all-time, one of the few to genuinely impact my life. Heck, when I read the book as a kid I loved Cruella so much I started using pepper a lot. I never put pepper on anything before. So, yeah, I love the character Cruella and love the story. So, what do I think of the animated adaption? It's pretty darn good. Really good animation for it's time, solid songs and film score, with highlights being the song about Cruella and the music playing while the dogs are escaping on ice. The movie is a bit slow at the beginning, but once Cruella shows up things start moving..
for the most part. That scene where the two dogs kept talking to each other right after the kidnapping went on a bit too long. That said, this is a quite entertaining film for the whole family and does a decent job, at least as good of a job as a Disney film would ever do, at adapting the book onto screen.
Charming, funny and touching! This tale is one everyone can relate to and enjoy. Who can't rally behind two parents fighting to get their children back from a kidnapper and reclaim their perfect life, or emphasis in the tense escape and journey home (with its has shades of escape from prison camps)? All these element gives this fluffy tale some great layers.It's super witty too the opening scene starts with the great observation of dogs and their owners or should we say dogs and their pets, and continues this throughout the film with the sort of whimsy you expect for classic Disney. The film itself is pumped full of character with the great characters themselves, the subtle, but energising, jazz and swing score or the art style. This all culminates in making it one of the best and stand out Disney movies.Much like all great art, as time goes on you can't help but marvel at how the artists accomplished such a luxurious finish in a time without cgi and the many shortcuts that are now available to them. Truly wondrous story telling and film making. Plus I challenge anyone to not be humming 'cruelly de vil' days after.
The animation is very striking and the plot is good; is an animated classic for dog lovers.
The movie that I want to review is the animation '101 Dalmatians' from Disney. I've never seen this movie before until I saw a teaser of 'Cruella' that will be released in June, so I was interested in the movie that Cruella is the villain, the movie '101 Dalmatians'. Personally, I think it is a bit cruel because in the movie Cruella needs a fur coat from 99 Dalmatian puppies. Is it too cruel from children? But this movie grossed $ 320.7 million worldwide. I decided to watch the movie because I liked the puppies but has been impressed forever. I love that the movie features the main character as a dog and it has a dialogue that expresses the feelings inside. I read an article saying that Disney deliberately gave the voice actors the voice of dogs very sharp and It sounds more dependable than a human being. And when going to the movies, it really felt like that. Pongo, the main character, is very cool. I like him the most. He is a dog with determination, courage and protection that he loves. I am amazed that there was not a lot of technology that enabled animation at the time but can be made to make the pictures look good and fun. Another character that I like is Ella. Even now, I don't know why she is so mad about fur coats but I also like some of her personality. I can't wait to see her part of the movie.
My favorite thing about 101 Dalmatians has always been the animation style. It's super simple but it just works and it's just great to look at. Cruella is one of Disney's best villains, she's just so much fun. I have a few problems with some of the scenes, I feel like some of them drag on a bit, but I still love this movie.
I hate how the movie is unfunny!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Two Dalmatians and their pups are coveted by fur-loving heiress Cruella de Vil.This is a pretty enjoyable adventure with some great animated sequences and a very memorable villain.The plot is okay, with some very cute, lovable protagonists on a capture and escape adventure with some standard Disney formula thrown in, such as romance and an evil queen/stepmom substitute in Cruella.Although the animation isn't amongst the most celebrated of Disney, I enjoyed it. The animals looked and moved as realistically as any in the Disney catalogue. The backgrounds have been criticised as not to the standard of other animated features but I found it all contrasted well with the black and white colours of the Dalmatians.Some sequences I thought were very memorable, such as the television watching scenes, the dog telegram, the journey through the snow and pretty much every image involving Cruella, which was a brilliant character design.All voice talent works well and the editing as always in these animated features is superb.Importantly it held my five year old daughter from start to finish, who seemed enthralled and entertained by it all.
Originally released back in 1961 - '101 Dalmatians' is an entertaining little tale that is sure to be enjoyed by a wide range of viewers, young and old.It is Cruella De Vil who is the real scene-stealer in this fun-filled Disney production.
Just 100% Disney, they did it again. Childhood memories.
About 60 years ago, a small little animated feature came out from Walt Disney's studio called 101 Dalmatians, based on the book of the same name by Dodie Smith. Released two years after the ambitious albeit financial flump that was Sleeping Beauty, the film was the smash hit that saved the Disney company from falling into bankruptcy, mostly given its smaller budget and cost effective xerography process at the time, in addition to many critics hailing it as one of the last great films produced by Walt himself prior to his death. So given its long lasting legacy, sequels and spinoffs, how exactly does it hold up nowadays?Set in then modern London, England, the film tells the story of two Dalmatians named Pongo and Perdita, whose puppies get kidnapped by the villainous coat maker Cruella deVille. Along the two's journey to save their children, Pongo and Perdita end up rescuing 84 additional puppies, bringing their total up to 101. Now given that premise, admittedly the film's weakest element is the plot, as it's pretty routine and predictable with not too many surprises for what will come next. However, what does save the story from being dull is the humor and charming characters. As the first several minutes start off with how Pongo and Perdita met, it ends up creating some funny shenanigans between their individual owners, Roger and Anita, one being a suave albeit assertive songwriter and the other being a kind albeit overly concerned person, having been a former schoolmate of Cruella De Vil. Speaking of Cruella, Betty Lou Gerson and animator Marc Davis steal the show with her hammy albeit overly threatening presence, and one can tell you do not want to mess with this spoiled witch.As for the other characters, Cruella's henchmen Horace and Jasper Baddun might have been the kickstarter of every mediocre henchmen trope in movies, but here their personalities contrast off one another so well with one being smart and the other being dumb, and they end up in some of the finer visual gags. Admittedly, the puppies themselves are more so reduced to Macguffins in the story, but they are cute enough as far as individual kids go. In addition to all that, people remember the movie most for its popular song named after Cruella herself, which is so corny that you cannot help but to sing along to it. The other songs being Kanine Krunchies, which showcased some subtle satire on the gimmicky commercialism in TV back then, and Dalmatian Plantation, which wraps the film up in such a lively harmonious fashion that you feel satisfied after the experience is over. While the Twilight Bark sequence does go on for a bit too long, it still has some fun dog barking antics and hysterical banter between the military like farm animals trying to rescue the pups, so it's still all in good fun.Now as for the animation, the film itself is famous for being the first Disney film to use Ub Iwerks' innovative process of xerography, which allowed for the animator's pencil drawings to be directly to animation cels, therefore controversially eliminating the use of ink and paint. While Walt himself hated the process out of wanting his films to look realistic, this might be one of the best uses of the process given the film's modernesque artstyle based off of Ronald Searle artwork and Mont Blanc India ink. In addition to Ken Anderson's experimental art direction and Walt Peregoy's stylish colors, the animators clearly had a lot of fun working on the film in bringing the characters to life. Animators like the aforementioned Marc Davis, Frank Thomas and Milt Kahl especially had the time of their lives on this film after being restricted to venture into exaggerated realism for too long, especially after the nightmarish production of Sleeping Beauty. While the xerox process would go on in other Disney features onward, none even came close to matching the artistic brilliance of this feature.So in the end, what could have easily been another standard rescue mission story ends up being highly entertaining and even boldly artistic. 101 Dalmatians might not be one of the Disney Company's greatest achievements in storytelling, but it remains a humorous thrill with fun characters, hysterical songs and luscious art experimentation nonetheless. Considering the decades worth of people who grew up with this film, there's bound to be even more generations who will too. So if you're yet to give this flick a watch, by all means give it a go at least once, and maybe you'll be hungry for some kanine krunchies afterwards.
I was so thrilled that 101 Dalmatians was part of my childhood. A truly wholesome film and impressive production. Despite being 1961 the animation is not too bad and has a remarkable story that keeps you interested till the end. Top marks for Disney for this film. It is films like this that cemented Disney's legacy and continued to pave the way for its future success.
In the usual Disney, animated style we are introduced to two Dalmatians (Pongo & Perdita), who eventually expand to 101 Dalmatians through the magic of Disney story-telling. The birth of the Dalmatians incurs the wrath of the evil Cruella De Vil, probably one of the most classically famous, tough, evil-female characters in film history.Fantastic animations, especially the background paintings, are seen throughout the film. The writers give us interesting, cutting-edge ideals (at least for the 60s), such as Pongo, checking out the legs on the women who walk by the street, in an attempt to find a mate for his owner. I rather enjoyed the interesting communication angle that Disney used, to help explain how talking dogs communicate with each other and with fine precision they show to us how smart animals in the real world really are.A fun adventure with the animators of Disney, that is hindered by a slow pace, that is counter-productive to the film and burns into the story in the middle of the film, but there is enough in the first and last thirds of the film to garner a very good film to see, although, I felt the chase scene at the end was a little forced. I was also shocked that Disney was still in 4:3 at this time.8.3 (B MyGrade) = 8 IMDB
A beautiful story about family and love, with lots of sugar from Disney. Still, we have some rather scary scenes for children, especially today, when the censors see that many things permeate their subconscious, but in 1961 things were different, and we could speak openly about death, or turn dogs into coats. The remake with Glenn Close does not detract from the original and follows the script almost to the letter, which is commendable. The traces of the drawings are very typical, like scribbles on paper, giving a water-colored beauty to the environments. It is worth showing this classic to the kids and then the remade version and let them decide which they liked the most.Film reviewed on January 5, 2020.
I watched the 1996 remake of 'One Hundred and One Dalmations' before watching the original. Now I wonder if the mediocrity of the remake made me enjoy the original more than I would have otherwise.The biggest plusses of the original were:A.) The animals spoke so nothing was left up to interpretation. I knew full well what was going on.B.) Because the animals talked the adventure could focus on them a lot more without relying as much on the people to suss out the story.C.) Because the animals spoke they had more personality and I could connect with them more.Bottom line: the animals need to speak.
With Disney Plus having rejigged their alphabetical list slightly 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' now sits with its '101' remakes and sequels near the top of the lists. This boosted it into becoming the next film I had to watch - which was unfortunate, as I do feel it's one of Disney's lesser titles.Roger (Ben Wright) and Anita (Lisa Davis) meet because of the interference of their respective Dalmatian dogs, Pongo (Rod Taylor) and Perdita (Cate Bauer). With both couples now together, Pongo and Perdita produce a litter of 15 puppies. They are abducted by henchmen for Anita's school friend, Cruella De Vil (Betty Lou Gerson) who intends to turn the puppies, along with 84 others into a fur coat. With humans useless, the dogs look to themselves to rescue the puppies.I have a lot of love for various Disney films from all era's, but 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' isn't one I really connected with as a child. Maybe it's because of that, that I found seeing it as an adult a rather dull and tedious affair. Visually it's interesting, as it marks a transition away from the hand drawn animation and the beginning of an automation era, but it's hardly beautiful - and lots of the animation, particularly the background work leaves something to be desired. There's only really one song of note, the Cruella De Vil song - but it's the story that really lets the film down. It's a bland procession of events, which doesn't build over the movies course and ends without anyone really learning anything, also the whole chain of barking aspect of the film takes' way too long.Cruella is an iconic villain, but that's really all that the film has going for it. Better films came before, and better films came after but for me, the silver age started with a whimper, rather than a bark.
I still can't watch this without crying or laughing so hard that either emotions leaves tears streaming down my face.
To be fair it's probably been imprinted on me from a young age but who cares about bias when it's based around a love of animals and good triumphing over evil?
Not exactly spoilers for a Disney film haha.
I put it on this evening cos let's be honest we are all a bit stressed out right now and all my worries melted away.
Nostalgic films are proven to do this though.
Do yourself a favour and watch this or any other film that makes you feel fuzzy inside.
Now gonna watch number 2, patch's adventure. I'm a sucker for a musical too!
Not bad. A fun romp that'll distract your kids for an hour or two. But a bit bland.
Though Cruella De Vil is as iconic as her reputation would imply (certainly sitting among the long-running studio's best villains), 'One Hundred And One Dalmatians (1961)' is much more than just the vehicle for her success. It's a charming, down-to-earth adventure that sees two dogs go on the hunt for their missing children who have been kidnapped for their spotted fur. The film has a scratchy aesthetic (a by-product of its time-saving animation techniques) but it's still very appealing, smoothly conveying its canine shenanigans and bumbling burglary. It has its moments of darkness - and, indeed, real danger - but it's mostly a happy affair that leaves you feeling elated. It's entertaining throughout. If you're a dog lover, you'll surely love this. 7/10
The dogs in this film are very cute. The overall story is simple but done very well. There are lots of riveting and emotional scenes.
'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' is pretty great, certainly my favourite animated film from Disney up until the point of this release.The animation is stunning, even with the minor details in and around the Radcliffe residence. The dalmatians themselves look excellent, while the premise keeps you locked in. It also features one of the studio's greatest villains in Cruella de Vil, who is incredibly wicked.I like the voice cast here, also. Rod Taylor is very good as Pongo, with Ben Wright doing positive things as Roger. Horace and Jasper, voiced by Frederick Worlock and J. Pat O'Malley, are there to amuse too. Betty Lou Gerson is, of course, the star as Cruella.I prefer the 1996 live-action production as it brings things to life better, but this is a fantastic effort from 1961 - one that is certainly worth your time viewing.
At first I was awestruck at how it was all hand drawn and thought it gave it a nice traditional touch but as it went on it was more like watching a moving painting than s movie I'm so used to the much higher levels of animation today. I have a feeling those who remember watching the original will still love the nostalgic feel but other viewers will likely find the change to much to rate to highly although it was still somewhat enjoyable. For me the remake I grew up on as a kid starring Glenn Close was better but I know many will disagree and I can understand why.
This animation is very good. Cruella de Vil is a epic villain
A beautiful movie. Dog's movie Always better than humans
Tonight I hurt myself, I watched for the 102nd time 'The 101 Dalmatians' and I confirm that's the animation movie of my life.
It's funny and also moving, it's an action then thriller movie and his characters are cult, all of them.
Rudy and his job that made him turn his baddest nightmare in his biggest hit record, the magnificent drawing of those lovely dogs and all the dialogues we still use in our everyday life.
Cruella is one of the best Disney villains and wonderfully drawn. If I could just 'cut-out' the short scene where she slaps the two bumbling robbers and once again tells them to 'Kill' those puppies. Otherwise, a joy to behold. No actual violence in the movie and several memorable scenes: The twilight bark. The black Labradors piling into the truck. Pongo considers his owner to be his 'pet' human. Far superior to the (much) later live-action versions. Wonderful talking animals with outstanding voice casting. Stylized animation with simpler backgrounds and no shadows, but still very well animated. A family favorite to this very day. We always watch it with our dog beside us.
Warm, funny and pretty nice. Great story, but nothing I'd watch more than once or twice.
It's amazing that this film came out n 1961 considering the quality of its presentation. I don't necessarily have a seasoned eye for quality of animation, but I found myself impressed witnessing the animation from the opening credits sequence alone. I could be wrong, and maybe this isn't an impressive film visually, but for me, I really enjoyed the quality of the animation in this film.One of the more difficult things to do with a film like this is, when you have 99 characters, giving each, or even some, of them distinct personalities can be difficult, yet this film manages to pull that off. It isn't perfect, but if given to any other animation studio, I'm not sure if they would have managed to pull something like what this film was able to off.This film is well-written and while it is a fairly straightforward story, there is something to be enjoyed about this film for all ages.The soundtrack for this film is remarkably good, featuring different styles of music ranging from the classic Disney sound from the 1950s up to the more kinetic sound of jazz and bebop. It's certainly one of Disney's more overlooked soundtracks in my opinion.One Hundred and One Dalmatians is a film that is possibly among the more overlooked part of the collection of animated films released by Disney. While previous Disney films that are considered classics by many didn't really do anything for me, this film still retains its value that I remember it having from my childhood. Yes, perhaps I might be a bit biased as when I was a kid I watched this film on VHS just short of wearing the tape out. It's still an enjoyable film today and takes the viewer on a still-quite enjoyable adventure. I recommend it to anyone.
A fine Disney animated adaptation of the gentle Dodie Smith tales of a couple who have a pair of Dalmatian dogs who have a litter to make Noah shudder.... The evil 'Cruella de Vil' cottons on to this almost endless supply of material for her future fur coats and sends her hapless flunkies to do some devious dognapping. Aside from Rod Taylor as the daddy dog ('Pongo') the assembled voice talents are lesser known (if at all) actors who put their heart and soul into the characterisations - especially Betty Lou Gerson as the evil 'de Vil' and J. Pat O'Malley as the redoubtable 'Colonel' who helps the parents mount a rescue of their spotted little darlings . It's a tightly scripted, enjoyable and fun story that almost seems crammed into 80 minutes.
One of the Disney Classics, it's so different painted than actual Movies, really beautiful Style. I also like it that the historical London is darkcouloured. The movie has some funny Moments, which makes adulds laughing as well as Kids.
One of my first Disney memorys!
I like some storytelling moments, for example the beginning, when you realise who is telling the story.
A good old classic Disney movie!
And what can I say for the villain.The most famous and recognising villain Cruella De Ville!That's it.I caught myself singing the song.A true classic for the whole family.
When two Dalmatians named Pongo (Rod Taylor) and Perdita (Cate Bauer) are blessed with fifteen puppies, they couldn't have been happier. But when their new family gets stolen, along with eighty-four other puppies by the evil fashion designer Cruella De Vil (Betty Lou Gerson) for the intention of making fur coats out of them, Pongo and Perdita must call on numerous other animals to help them rescue the puppies from their fate. Important in animation history as the first Disney animated film to heavily use newer xerography methods for the purpose of cheaper animation methods, One Hundred and One Dalmatians may lack the visual beauty of Disney's earlier fantasy films, but the modern UPA style of the film helps it stand out as one of the most visually unique films of the 1960's. The infamous Cruella, thanks to Marc Davis's incredible character animation and Betty Lou Gerson's piercing voice makes her one of the most memorable villians of all time and despite a lot of it would end up being reused for numourous films produced during this cost-cutting era, George Bruns's score is fabulous with the best example of his work being the jazz-inspired opening credits that would set the mood for the more laid-back films of this time period. Overall, One Hundred and One Dalmatians deserves it's reputation as not only one of the most important films in the companies history, but also as a fun thrill ride for all ages.
The main villan (i forget her name) is unstoppable. And she proves it in this movie. The beginning of the film is a carbon copy of the end. A dog is shown runnig through a park on a freezing night. while the villian comfortably sits in her vehicle watching him with one of those ghost smiles (like a person that is done with everything). She avoids doing anything in the film, sits in her car, and smokes her french stick.
I managed to watch 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' during the holiday season in 1969 after having seen a book version as a child. It did not disappoint. One scene I got a kick out of was the 'Kanine Krunchies' scene. I knew the film was already nine years old, but I still got a kick out of it. And overall, it's an entertaining film.Even in 1969, I took note of the style of animation, since I was already attuned to that aspect of an animated feature. Given what the Disney studio was dealing with at the start of the 1960s, it's understandable. But it's the story and characterization that carries this film.
This could be a cute movie from Walt Disney Animation Studios.
Pongo and Hattie, the pups' parents could be Lady and the Tramp a bit further down the road while Cruella De Ville follows the models of preceding Disney female baddies, only with even more flounce and extravagance. Apart from the 'Cruella De Ville' song, there's a distinct lack of musical interludes, which serves the purposes of the one-long-chase plot-line reasonably well. There's gentle humour as you'd expect and a tolerable running gag with the little pup that's forever hungry. I thought the best sequence though was right at the start when Pongo persuaded his owner to cosy up to Mattie's in the park, but the narrative manages to engage all the way through with the 'human' characters also achieving sufficient degrees of personality to embellish the tale before the obligatory happy ending. You'd have to be pretty hard-hearted not to enjoy this delightful animation which I took pleasure in doing today for the very first time.
One Hundred and One Dalmatians is a well done film by Disney. There's catchy songs, awesome imagery, detailed scenes, and in general just a fun film to watch. The way this film grabs you to like characters such as Pongo makes you fascinated into what happens to these characters. Even the evil characters. This film has been crafted very well and is for everyone to watch. Especially if you're a dog lover. From the opening credits to the closing credits. You're in for a great movie with some spotted friends.
101 Dalmatians is such a wonderful family film to watch!!! It has laughter throughout the film, love, thrilling moments & heartache. The outcome of the movie is brilliant!!! A Great Cast & an incredible storyline. I WOULD HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE TO ANYONE!!! A+++ Film.
I watched this one relatively often as a kid and remembered enjoying it, but as an adult, it's much easier to appreciate how great a movie this is. It's very funny, yes, but also quite suspenseful. The 'scratchy' animation style and the backgrounds are well-paired. The dogs and their owners are sympathetic characters, but it's Cruella who dominates the movie. She is pretty freaking scary and designed to perfection.
I grew up watching this as a kid more so than the live-action remake. The animation's nice though it looks somewhat rough around the edges. The story's about a couple and their dogs trying to save their litter of 101 puppies from the crazy Cruella De Ville who wants to make a fur coat out of each and every one of them. It's a race against the clock as hijinks ensure throughout the course of the movie and it's hilarious! Cruella's definately a villian you love to hate and it's funny seeing her rant about how much she wants those dogs.The movie's not great but it's not bad, it's just ok which's fine. It's definately not my favorite. This's definitely a movie for little kids which's fine because adults probably won't get into it that much.
Disney isn't the same anymore, the classics cannot be beaten. Today's Disney like frozen and Moana are just rubbish. Not just storyline's but the graphics aren't as Disney like as it used to be. Bring old Disney back! 💙
101 Dalmatians was a childhood favorite of mine, rewatched it just recently and still enjoyable. Some of the movie still gives me goosebumps like the Twilight Bark scene and some of the score, that's how you know when a movie is that good. The are some elements of the film that are a little bit dark, like Cruella De Ville's plan to skin the fur of dalmatian puppies for a new fur coat and the look of the De Ville place is creepily awesome. Other than that, it's still a good film to watch with the family, I truly recommend this movie to anyone who haven't seen it.
I love dogs and I love London so it only makes sense that I love this movie so much. I thought the twilight bark was interesting for some reason. The story is simple yet entertaining with an iconic villain. This classic will never get old for me.
101 Dalmations is possibly one of my favote Disney film of all time. I grew up with this film as I had the VHS tape as a kid and watched it constantly. I love all the characters, especially Crella Devel (I think I spelt her name wrong). I love the sketchy, eougg looking animtion style. It gives it a very distinct loom to it. Love the soundtrack as well as the backgrounds. I 100$ recommend this film to everyone of all ages, especially dog lovers.
This movie starts out really nice and charming. I really liked the characters, music, basically everything. But when the dog-bark-chain thing started the whole movie went downhill. I mean, talk about needing screen time! After the stupidly long bark-chain is over, the movie picks up again. But seriously, you expect me to believe the owners are overjoyed at the thought of owning 101 flipping dogs at the end?
One of the best films I watched as a child; 101 Dalmatians is great family entertainment. A story of two lonely people and their dogs that brought them together. It's a really endearing story about family and loyalty; Roger and Anita and their pets against Cruella. If you haven't seen this film, you're missing a great story and experience. Fans of Disney will especially love 101 Dalmatians as its pure magic, from the story to the voice cast; including Rod Taylor (from The Time Machine). One of the funniest characters is Rolie, an overweight male pup who's always hungry. And there's Sgt. Tibbs the cat, his interactions with Horace and Jasper are pretty darn hilarious too.This was one of the forst animated films from Disney to receive the live action treatment, which occurred in 1996. The live action version wasn't bad, but the original is always best. In 2004, the animated 101 Dalmatians was followed by a sequel, Patch's London Adventure.
The Animation Industry saw a decline by the mid 1950s due to increased production costs, change in business practices, and television. However, the artists still had a few tricks up their sleeves.Ub Iwerks saw the invention of xerox technology as a possible way to speed up animation production and bring costs down. After some tinkering, he modified it so that animation drawings could be xeroxed onto cels instead of having them hand traced. However, many scenes looked 'sketchy' as rough outlines of drawings were copied over onto cels. Ken Anderson got around this by stylizing the backgrounds and outlining everything, giving the film a unique look. They really got creative with this sketchy technology. Even the opening credits are the most intriguing of sequences to come from Disney.Despite, the setbacks with the xerox photography, this is actually of one Disney's greatest films all around. Animator Andreas Deja said a while back, that although the characters are stylized and sketchy looking, they still come across as very believable and relatable characters. What also makes the film very strong is the engaging flow of the story, supplemented by creative use of camera angles and perspective shots. There is never a dull moment in the film. The climax is done well timed and suspenseful, keeping the viewers of the edge of their seats.This is one film that I've enjoyed just as much when I was a kid as I do an adult.
This movie is pretty good. The animation is great as well as the voice acting, script, and plot. There is some stupidity in this movie, but otherwise its extremely entertaining and I'd recommend watching it.
One thing that never ceases to amaze me is how timeless Disney animations are. 1961 and still better than the average modern animation, what more could one want? Dalmatian Pongo decides to find a wife for his master and a mate for himself, which eventually results in fifteen puppies being born. Old school friend Cruella De Vil wants the spotted fur of these puppies so she can make a new coat, to do this she hires henchmen to kidnap them and eighty four other puppies. What sets this film apart from the other classics in Disney's canon is just how small the story is. It's not a grandiose fairytale with fantastical magic, it's a crime chase set in both urban and rural London. Removing princesses, fairies and living puppets from the equation resulted in a more relatable plot that still conveyed the excitement and charm that Disney is famed for. The bachelor life in the first act, the portrayal of the 'Twilight Bark' in the second act and the climatic car chase of the final act. Each segment exhumes delightfulness for both the human and canine characters that come together to create an enthralling story about family. The animation style was delicately crafted, from the cute bumbling puppies to the metropolitan streets of London, that unsurprisingly has stood the test of time. The human characters ooze essential British quirks that represent a flourishing love for their canine companions. Some of the puppies have the opportunity to push their own personality forward, such as Lucky, preventing them from being just a plot device. However, the main star is the maniacal fur speed demon herself, Cruella. An antagonist so deluded and crazed that she ranks in the top echelon of Disney villains, not an easy feat to accomplish. The outbursts, perfectly voiced by Gerson, were enough to put kids on edge! I just wished there was more closure for the character, especially after a nail biting chase sequence. Some of the supporting animal characters were not memorable enough, however everything else was spot on...*cough*!
One-Hundred and One Dalmatians is about two Dalmatians who along with their owners find love. They have some puppies which are kidnapped by the vile Cruella DeVille, a woman who wishes to use 101 Dalmatians to make into a fur coat.It's one Disney's funnier films, there're a lot of fun characters. Cruella is a different villain in the way that she doesn't have a lot of screen time and the scenes in which she is on screen are fleeting and just focused on showing her as a scary character.The animation is a little different in a couple parts. Scenes of snowfall looks quite different then other scenes. The Walt Disney Studios were looking for quicker ways to animate scenes and thus varying techniques were used.
But overall it adds to the films uniqueness.
It's got some dark material but it never feels to scary for children as the film has an overall feel of fun of adventure.A great film for all ages!
That genre of film with fragile story, lovely characters, fascinating adventures/tension/bad character and with taste of milks and cookies. it does '101 Dalmatians' unique. and this is the motif for who does works the parallel with others Disney animations. because it is the source - film for who the kids loves dalmations beyound them sees on street, for who the portrait of nanny is so sweet and the adults recognize himselves in the traits of young couple and in the huge love for animals. it is a film so great than it is a crime to define its sins. because it is unique. and, maybe, more than unique because Cruella De Vil remains, for generations of viewers, more than an evil character but the most sadistic/absurde figure of Disney universe.
While I love the narrative flow, and the artwork of this classic Disney film, there is only middling character development, and the actions of all the human characters make no sense at all. The best scene of the movie is probably the background info of how the two human protagonists meet and fall in love by the machinations of pongo.Cruella is memorable in appearance, but in truth her character does not fit the evil cultural icon we had made her into. Her most evil aspects are goth clothing and non-stop smoking. Does she steal souls, end the world, or abuse children? no, just a run of the mill low-life stealing puppies. The plot also makes no sense at all. Cruella is so poor that she is squatting in her own family ruins, drives a barely functional car, and employs the worst two thugs in history. God knows how she pays them. according to the story line, she wants to make a puppy fur coat, because...reasons? and she is poor, so she is breaking into people's houses after carefully casing the joints to make sure they aren't home, and apparently breaks into around 100 houses? (because no one actually has 15 Dalmatians. that is mental) what is the motivation for her thugs? why not, say, just break into 1 house, steal things of actual value such as jewelry and money, and just buy a real freaking fur coat. seems way easier. and what is the end game here? she will take all the puppies to...the puppy-murdering fur coat maker? why is no one concerned about that guy? what happens to the dead skinless puppies? I mean, there are 100 of them. Just drop them off at the horse glue factory? What the heck is happening in this movie? anyways, just joking, this is a classic film your children will love, because puppies.
At a young age, I love watching it because of the dogs. Now I love it for it being masterpiece. The movie is about a dalmatian named Pongo who wants to find a partner for this owner or how Pongo calls him 'his pet'. After looking at people walking their dogs, he sees the perfect on, a woman walking her dalmatian. After Pongo sees them walking into the park, he drags his owner out there and gets them to meet and fall in love. As the owners fall in love, so do the dalmatians. After the owners Roger and Anita get married, Pongo and Perdy have puppies and realize that someone wants their puppies for a fur coat. My favorite thing about this movie was Pongo himself. I really enjoyed that because of him, he got his owner a life. Also loved brave he and Perdy are for finding their kids and even bringing back about 84 more puppies to keep them safe. I love this movie and I love the old style of animation. I grew up with this movie and still love it to this day.
*spoilers ahead* This is a very heartwarming family tale. It tells of a dalmatian who wants to find a mate. Then eventually, they have puppies. What a nice love story, right? No. An evil queen comes along and takes the puppies without consent, even though they want to keep them. She almost takes their fur but they go through tremendous trouble with their parents to go home, but not just the puppies, they decide to bring all the other puppies along.
I really like this movie. Among my favorite from outside the Disney renaissance. Very memorable characters and a pretty solid story. And last, but absolutely not least, one of the greatest Disney villains! Cruella De Vil is both stylish, menacing and versatile in her performance, both exposing her psychotic driving and sugar sweet and slimy voice and her yelling at her goons. You know she is up to no good right from the start. The slow pacing gives time for some good suspense when our main dogs try to escape Cruella and her goons' clutches. That also leads up to great chase scenes. Watch it. It is funny, cute, full of suspense and great characters.
A mad mistress gathers spotted puppies, including a freshly-stolen litter of fifteen from a small metropolitan family, to harvest their pelts and produce a line of fur coats. When the lost pups' parents send out a distress call, half the hounds of London take the case and the great chase begins. The theme and tone are fitting for a Disney picture, retaining some of the fantasy elements that first brought the studio to fame, while continuing the lean in a slightly darker direction that would continue throughout the next thirty years. Disney Animation had to cut some corners to make this one, after Sleeping Beauty underperformed at the box office, and many of those cost-saving measures show up in the finished product. Xeroxed and reused character animations are abundant, artwork often seems rushed and over-simplified, and the extensive use of rotoscoping is often distracting. It's also a very short film, running just an hour and nineteen minutes with credits, and the story suffers for that brevity: villainess Cruella De Vil's great comeuppance seems short-lived and inconsequential, while the focal family's happy reunion comes off as narrow and happenstance. There's also very little music in the picture, surprisingly so considering the human father's occupation as an always-working composer, which makes for a less jolly, wholesome vibe than one might expect. It isn't bad - the core characters are charming and they're aided by a full, well-rounded supporting cast - but it does seem terribly shallow and borderline incomplete. The beginning of a difficult transition away from the days when the studio was churning out classics every other year.
This is what Glenn close said was a great Bible to go by in order to play Cruella DeVil in the 1996 live action update of 101 Dalmatians. This movie was a true childhood obsession for me. I loved the character Cruella so much! I think she may be the best Disney villain of the classic animations. She is for sure the most delicious. Everything about her is so over the top and volcanic. She of course wears her signature black dress with a white fur coat all throughout the movie. Then always smoking a cigarette with a red holder, green smoke bellowing from it constantly. Her design and look to her is so detailed and correct for her kind of character. And then Of course, we have her car, her red classic Cadillac that she drives crazily everywhere. Her driving is so much of who Cruella is lol, I remember loving that as a kid, that's really where most of the action in the film stems from. On to the other characters. Anita and Rodger are great innocent characters that have good romantic chemistry, pongo and perdita are really Rodger and Anita just in animal version. The plot is darker than most current animated films, but kids can handle it, they'll certainly have loads of fun watching these animals try desperately to escape Cruella's clutches. And it's complete with a fun theme song and top notch animation. 9/10 for 101 Dalmatians (1961).
This famous Disney film tells the story of a litter of fifteen Dalmatian puppies that are stolen by Cruella De Vil, a wealthy lover of fur coats, to be turned into a coat. Despite the fame, I don't think it's particularly appealing. The story is basic and has nothing special, besides a lively attack on the use of animal skins. About three-quarters of film's lenght are occupied by the puppies' escape, the remainder being divided between a brief prelude and a predictable outcome. The film also has problems of cinematography, because the drawings are a little coarse and ungainly, very unpleasant to the eyes. Contrary to the usual Disney movies, music isn't a strong point here. With the notable exception of 'Cruela De Vil', the film has no notable music. The best of this film is the work of voice actors and Cruella, one of the best villains ever created by the studio. She makes the film really funny and is the most remarkable character, even more than the puppies themselves.I've never been interested in this movie in my childhood. I knew it existed, but it never caught my eye, I'm not sure why. Only now, as an adult, did I have the curiosity to watch it. I wasn't disappointed but also wasn't expecting anything better.
It wasn't called Disney Renaissance for nothing: in 1989, 'The Little Mermaid' was the first animated Disney to feature a princess in thirty years, the last one being 'Sleeping Beauty'. With that in mind, the first Disney animated feature to be released after 'Sleeping Beauty' was a starter in its own right, opening an era of uneven productions that can be assimilated to dark ages. Although perceived as classics they never inspire the same glee in the eye than the likes of 'Snow White' and 'Pinocchio' or 'Mermaid' and 'Lion King'. But 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' has aged better than most of its contemporary, maybe enough to compete with the legitimate masterpieces. Now, do kids really care about these technicalities? Speaking for myself, this film is one of my earliest memories, and by that I mean very early. I had vague and foggy visions of the encounter between Pongo and Perdita (and their masters Roger and Anita) in the park, I never forgot the face of Cruella De Vil who was the first villain I could put a name on, and as a kid who was a bit cowardly, I used to hide uncer a table during the TV scene. I simply hated that startling moment where the villainous cowboy's face occupied the whole screen and scared the hell out of Patch, and me in the process (quite a 'mise en abime'). I avoided watching, and later renting, the film maybe because of that moment, but the film didn't avoid me for all that.Indeed, one of the first books I started to read at the age of 5 was based on the film and at the same time, I used to watch the Disney Channel program and to those who remember, the intro started with the iconic picture of the polka-dotted canine family staring at the TV. This is just the stuff your nostalgia is made on, you can't control it. And for all these reasons, I simply can't formulate a critic against the film without feeling like I'm betraying my inner child. But I'll let the adult speak a little: after Christmas, I bought my daughter four Disney classics and I couldn't resist the temptation. I had to see the Dalmatians, three decades after the first complete viewing. Enough with the princesses, 'Frozen' and 'let-it-go!' message, how about a family- friendly film about a dog family.After all these dragon fights and dazzling magic tricks from 'Sleeping Beauty', there's a sort of cozy and relaxing little charm 'Dalmatians', conveyed through that opening scene where Pongo tries to find the perfect girl for his master and culminating in the park. The next scene is a revolution; TV in a Disney film. This is an acknowledgment of the role the little screen played on Disney's expansion, and what a wonderfully crafted moment with these puppies staring at their dog hero while we stare at them. TV would even play a part to the story as the two thugs Horace and Jasper will delay their mission because they want to watch 'What's My Crime?' on TV. As a big fan of the 'What's My Line' channel on Youtube, I was surprised to find a parody of the program on a Disney film.But then I remembered that even the great Walt Disney came to the show and promoted the opening of Disney World (or was it Land?). Disney was a pioneer in the sense that he could anticipate the tastes of people but he could also disconcert the expectations and make something like 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians', a family oriented film in the purest sense of the world, perhaps the only Disney with a united family not affected by death, and a great message about it. Even that powerful doggy SOS where, one howl to another, dogs communicate in order to find the puppies find some strong echoes in our era affected by sad kidnapping stories. 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' marks an unexpected entrance from Walt Disney in modernity.Of course, it had a few undesirable effects such as the constant recycling of images (I spotted that the image of Roger lighting his pipe was reused three or four times) but this is not as blatant as the case of 'Sword in the Stone' or 'The Aristocats' and there's obviously an element in the drawing of these little dogs (and the big ones, too) that is admirable. The sketchy drawing and seemingly static background never bothered me anyway because they fit the very kind of stories Disney would start to tell. And the way Cruella De Vil looks is integral to her appeal, she indeed looks like a devil, a monster, but she might be the most 'human' of all Disney villains, maybe the character modern audience can most relate too, she's crazy, obsessive, narcissistic, but she's a woman who backs up her words with actions, she embodies the darkest side of the 'woman-power' and contributes to one of the most thrilling climactic sequences from Disney. Can you believe that after a dragon fight, the next Disney featured a car chase, and one that holds up pretty well by today's standards.So, it doesn't come as a surprise that she was listed among the Top 50 Greatest Villains from the Top 50 villains of the American Film Insitute's List among the Evil Queen and the Man from 'Bambi', not a bad company. So for the villain, the positive message about family (maybe the only Disney where it's a central theme) and the whole 'great escape' plot, 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians', if not the best, is perhaps one of the most endearing Disney features.(And I just noticed this is the 100th review this film got, next reviewer will be happy)
Still sitting amidst the height of Disney's animation, this film about a puppy mill to make fur coats for an evil woman is quite startling. Cruella DeVille is the villain (I used to joke about her saying how could she have lived anything but an evil life with a name like that). She of the chiseled cheeks and cigarette holder, with that cackle. What we have is an effort by the good guys to overcome the machinations of the bad guys to rescue all those dogs. The story's strength is in outwitting fools. It's always been interesting how bad people in film hire some of the biggest idiots on the planet to work for them. This is the case once again as those two bozos hatch their plans. Since events are entirely predictable, we need only look to the excellence of the animation and the soundtrack to really enjoy this film.
A classic story about two young people who meet while walking their dogs and marry. Instead of having a baby they are gifted with these lovable dogs who have to escape the clutches of an evil fashion designer Cruella Dvil before she can turn them into coats. The style isn't perfect, looking like a picture book illustration, in most scenes. Jasper and Horace hardly change face positions and even have continuation errors when it's attempts. Cruella is a fabulous eccentric hippy who has her uptight personality you love to hate.While the plot feels rehashed a bit, it was a first of it's kind to show parents concerned about their kids, greed and raise awareness about the fur industry. Add in the suspenseful ride and it's an edge of your seat thriller on if they can survive the odds and make it home before the crooks or the weather gets to them.Not my favorite Disney film or the best they have to offer, but it was entertaining for the most part. Get it for the kids to enjoy with cute puppies that talk.5/10
I haven't read the book so I can't compare it to that though, frankly, that makes it easier to review and possibly more entertaining. But enough of this introduction, let's get on with the review!I want to start off by expressing the great ideas this film comes up with. I love that they have the dogs consider the humans as their pets. And the way they go about explaining it is really good. If it were to be made now they'd probably just have a dog saying 'Hi I'm a dog! You may think that this human I'm with is my owner but no! He's actually my pet!'. I actually cringed typing that. My point is that they treat you with respect and don't ever talk about it as if we were supposed to think they were pets. That's good writing. However the two main characters, Roger and Anita are only brought together because Roger's dog sees them and thinks that they should get together. Despite this they don't lack any good chemistry and are one of Disney's best couples.Now the animation! I've already said that I really like this modern sketchy style, it gives the movie it's own feel and almost even some grit to it. Doug Walker said something along the lines of that he personally doesn't like it and that it doesn't look like the final product, I disagree though understand where he's coming from. Though I also feel it helps with some of the character designs, the dog called colonel looks really cool, due to the sketchy style but I think you can tell that I'm just building up to talking about Cruella De Vil.This bony little old woman under a massive fur coat is really unique idea is one of, if not the best Disney villain designs. She's one of the best Disney villains and has such an iconic presence and voice. Her entrance is amazing. She bursts in the door, with her own theme tune playing from up stairs. The opera length cigarette holder, that puffs out green smoke is also a really noticeable element about the character.As I mentioned before Cruella has her own theme tune and unlike other Disney movies where people just break into song for no apparent reason, here it makes sense. Roger is a songwriter and is working on a melody, once Cruella shows up at the house he applies lyrics to do with her to the song. They even add to this idea more when we hear is song being played on the radio and his wife refers to it as 'his first big hit'. This, sadly, is the only song in the movie.Now onto the pups. The puppies are the most important part of the movie, if they didn't exist this movie really wouldn't have it's plot. So how do they turn out? The puppies are probably the worst part about the movie because since there's so many of them, the writers couldn't have gave them all distinct personalities. Thankfully they never come across as annoying or stereotypical and that's good enough. It would probably take too much time to flesh all of them out anyway.Something surprising about this movie is it's vast amount of suspense. Through a lot of it I was very worried for these characters and as critics would say 'on the edge of my seat'. The characters go through so much that when you do get to the final happy ending, you've worked for it and in this movie that's done better than in any other film I've seen, in my opinion. However once you do get to that happy ending you kind of feel underwhelmed, or at least I did. I feel they could have went that bit more happy but what I got I'm happy with. This film is definitely worth giving a watch and, despite what some critics lead you to believe, has a lot of harsh elements. If I had to pick something that disappointed me, that I haven't already mentioned, is that it was too short and I didn't get enough. Though I suppose that's more of a compliment.Thank you for reading and goodbye.
For the past 20 years, whenever someone asks my favorite Disney movie, I have always said Peter Pan. And I still do. But every time I watch this movie I love it even more. The animation is different than any of Disney's other movies, making it very intriguing. I love the story, the characters and the humor. The TV that the dogs watch is hysterical and there are so many other fantastic lines and jokes. I have always loved this movie. I even have a stuffed dog named after Pongo. And though I will always have a special place in my heart for Peter Pan, I wonder if, as I get older, this movie will replace it as my favorite. While other Disney movies (such as, at times, Peter Pan) are entertaining for nostalgia's sake or when you're in the mood to feel like a kid, this movie is entertainment for all ages. Smartly written, cleverly animated and all around entertaining, 101 Dalmatians is a movie you will love in every stage of your life. Highly recommended.
One Hundred and One Dalmatians is another Disney film that I don't get the rating for. A 7.2 is fine, but I have no idea how 98% of critics on Rotten Tomatoes could give this a Fresh review. I was slightly engaged at some parts, such as Perdita and Pongo acting aggressive towards Horace and Jasper, but the majority of the film is bland and nearly repulsive to my tastes, having adult humor that doesn't work (I was almost cringing when Roger called Pongo an 'old rascal', as it was much too swift for Disney to have gone in that direction when it wouldn't be developed until the next 11 years), action that, if I was just seeing it like a TV show, would not keep my attention to the screen, a below average use of cuteness to convey something else (it's just present on its own), and songs that are above average but still forgettable. If you like the Dalmatian breed, then you can disregard parts of this review (I am more of a Bichon-Poodle fan), but this is otherwise a movie that you should give lots of thoughts about before seeing it.
If there's any classic Disney movie that's less likely to be forgotten because of the modern Disney movies, this would be one of them. Part of the reason may be the live action version and its upcoming sequel. Skip those remakes and watch the real deal. The other part of the reason is because this movie is just so charming. Cruella De Vil is one of the more memorable Disney villains ever made. Romance abounds in this movie, and don't forget those adorable puppies. This may not have the animation or the big fancy songs of the moderns, but all that fanciness usually distracts from the story. Classic Disney always rocks, and this is no exception. I liked this film mainly for its drawings. It was a departure from previous Disney animated films in that it had harder-edged drawings instead of the soft pastels. I found the detailed sketches of the building to be fascinating. I could actually watch this film with the sound off and just enjoy the artwork.
This is a Disney film I first saw as a kid and I liked it. Several years later, I watched it again and I still like it. It's a charming film with a laid-back quality and more contemporary look and feel than any of the Disney movies that came before it.The animation certainly doesn't compare to the animation in the Disney films that came before it such as Sleeping Beauty and Lady & The Tramp, but it works well enough on its own. The characters (both human and animal) are drawn with more of a sharp and angular look and the backgrounds are drawn with that same kind of style as well.The opening credits sequence is fun to watch even though it mostly consists of using Dalmatian spots as a series of visual puns, but the sequence does help to get you to look forward to the rest of the film.The songs are a nice delight to listen to, despite that this movie isn't really a musical like most Disney films, but the two songs (Cruella De VIl & Dalmatian Plantation) are catchy and kind of memorable. The rest of the music works fine with the movie. My favourite part is during the opening credits sequence.Cruella De Vil is a really fun villain and a lot of that comes from the way she's drawn, animated and voiced. She is probably the best character in the movie. The rest of the human characters are fine, but nothing outstanding. The main Dalmatian characters are fun to watch (especially during the scene where they're watching TV or when they have to disguise themselves as Labradors to get past Cruella's evil clutches) and most of the other animal characters have some fun moments as well. The plot is a bit out-there, but it works fine for a family film.Overall, 101 Dalmatians is a charming, laid-back and entertaining movie that has been enjoyed by kids and adults in the past and should continue to be enjoyed for generations to come.
101 Dalmatians is a straightforward animated classic whose brilliance is in its details. The plot is an uncomplicated kids story--a young couple own two dogs that have dalmatian puppies, but an evil friend of the couple wants the puppies for an unclear purpose. It turns out that she wants to kill them and use their coats for a fashion experiment, and after the couple decides not to sell her the puppies, she sends a couple of hired goons to kidnap them. The goons do their job, but the puppies escape and the chase is on.101 Dalmatians sounds like a kids' movie, and it is a kids' movie, but like all good Disney movies, this film resonates with adults as well. The key aspect is the villain, Cruella de Vil, who is one of those people that you occasionally run across and wish you hadn't. Cruella is quite simply an evil person, someone so self-involved that she really does not care about others at all. What makes her effective is that we know people like this, but sometimes we want to believe that they do not really exist. The film makes us confront them, makes us deal directly with a person evil enough to kill 99 helpless puppies for a simple fashion conceit. The effect is creepy enough to really make me feel for this family of dogs whose objective is only to live happily, and whose handicap is simple human greed and conceit. It is really very powerful.And what about child viewers? Oddly enough, they will not be traumatized by this movie as much as they might be. The reason is that the battle between good and evil is treated with real gentleness, and the good characters have great moments in the film. A scene where it appears that one of Pongo's puppies is born dead is treated with tremendous sensitivity. Another scene where Pongo and Perdita agree to take along another 84 orphan dalmatians rather than leave them behind for Cruella also is one that makes us cheer. Also, much of the conflict is treated with a comic flair that puts us at ease with some actually quite disturbing situations, and seems to deflate Cruella's menace. The result is that this is a great movie for kids. Evil Cruella is not sugar-coated but is put in proper perspective, a really impressive feat for a movie like this. At the same time, the movie is a thriller, a love story, a critique of the social class system, and an adventure film. It is a great movie.
What really bothers me about this film is the fact we had just gotten a much better film about animated dogs from Disney. It was called Lady and the Tramp, and it was amazing. As such, a tale about even more dogs, this time without the warmth and the charm of the previous ones, just didn't feel as successful.Problem number one, Pongo and Perdita. I just don't get these two. They're supposed to be the main couple, the heroic parents who save their children, but I don't get anything from them. Their owners, Roger and Anita, are a great couple, one of the best of the so called beta couples Disney has ever done. But the main couple. Nope, don't work.The second problem, the copying. A lot of this movie's plot lines and scenes have been copied from previous Disney movies. Mainly from Lady and the Tramp. It's not really all that noticeable if you don't watch them back to back, but if you do, it's kind of blatant. Plus the animation style utilizes a lot of copying because of the new Xerox method of animation that allowed them to animate all those individual dalmatian puppies without going stark raving mad. Which I give them props for. This movie looks noticeably rougher when compared to the ones before it, but it is a very impressive technical achievement anyway.The first good side, the villain. Cruella De Vil has since achieved almost legendary status as a Disney villain, and for a reason. She's petty, nauseatingly glamorous without any of the grace that usually goes with it, just one push away from cuckoo land and absolutely mad about fur even when not pushed. In a word she's memorable, even though her actual plan is really not that ambitious when compared to her brethren. She just wants a coat.The second good side, the music. This film has some great tunes, from the classic Cruella De Vil to the opening scene with its early 20th century London suburbia.As a whole this movie is something of an uneven package. It has definite upsides, but also equally as definite downsides. It is a very good film, don't get me wrong, great even, but only when not compared to other Disney films too vigorously. Still, definitely a classic children's film by any meaning of the term.
One Hundred and One Dalmations (1961) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Delightful Disney classic has the evil Cruella De Vil trying to steal ninety-nine Dalmatian pups so that she can turn them into a lavish fur coat.It's funny but ONE HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIONS is a film that I never really cared too much for as a kid but seeing it for the first time in probably fifteen years certainly made a world of difference because I never realized how fun and how extremely dark the film was. As far as characters there's no question that the film offers some of the most memorable in any Disney movie. This includes the two Dalmatian dogs and their fifteen pups as well as the two humans and of course there's the wonderful villain. All of these characters are given their own delightful personalities and it's rather amazing to see how much character they actually have.Another major plus is of course the animation, which is excellent as you'd expect. Add in a good tune and there are all sorts of wonderful elements here. Heck, I mentioned how great the main characters were but even the supporting characters are extremely entertaining. Another thing that the film has going for it is how dark it actually is. I mean, the plot involves cute little puppies being killed and skinned. You can't get much darker than that.ONE HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIONS has wonderful characters and plenty of nice laughs making it a classic.
one of the great classics of childhood. because it is not a fairy tale but it preserves the flavor and the freshness of it. because it is magic for the splendid drawings and for the delicacy of story. because the dalmatians are more than dogs and the clash of the real dalmatians is almost disappointed after see the film. because it has magnificent characters and admirable rhythm. because it is one of precious memories of adult and , again and again, a seductive show. because, after two films, the animation remains not only the best but unique. a film for each age and for lovely trip in past. a film about small basic things. with humor, grace and high precision. short - one of the animation who must see . again. and, surely, again. for a form of joy, tension and humor who seems be part of different world, almost strange by ours.
The reason I like animated films like 101 Dalmatians is because they don't take themselves too seriously. Two other Disney films like this one, The Aristocats and Jungle Book, are, not so coincidentally, made by the same director and (mostly) the same writing staff. I'm unaware if other Disney films were also made by them, but this trio of films represents the most fun I've gotten out of Disney.101 Dalmatians opens with Pongo, bored to death, looking out the window, while his owner Roger, his 'pet', is composing at the piano. Longing for a mate for both him and his 'pet', he arranges for Roger to meet a woman called Anita and her Dalmatian Perdita. In typical Disney fashion, they get married before you can say Bob's your uncle. Perdita eventually gives birth to fifteen puppies. That's when Cruella De Vil pops her head around the corner and decides she wants the puppies' skins for a new fur coat. When Roger and Anita obviously refuse, she hires Horace and Jasper to 'dognap' them. Roger, Anita and the police are unable to find the lost puppies and so it is up to Pongo and Perdita to track them down with help from the rest of the animal kingdom.If there's one thing that pops to mind when critiquing 101 Dalmatians, it's the quality of the animation. I'm not too sure of the history, but it looks like it was financially impossible to pump too much money in the animation department. Backgrounds are sometimes monotone and lack depth. Several types of animations also repeat throughout the film, such as Pongo running (to the right) which is not only repeated once or twice, but sometimes even obviously mirrored (with Pongo running to the left). But these technical details are easy to forgive, because of the humor which is quite often of the adult kind. No kid watching this will ever see the horse and the dog from the barn as military satire.Also amusing is the subtext of humans being more like dogs than one might think. This is not necessarily new. In fact, it's about as old as Darwinism, but it's pleasant that we're not hit over the head with this message. There's no grand monologue on how humans must realize they are more animal-like than they'd like to think. Instead, it subtly reoccurs through imagery and dialogue. Pongo refers to Roger as his 'pet' multiple times. Also cute is when De Vil accidentally sprays Roger with ink, making him visually similar to a Dalmatian.101 Dalmatians and similar films like The Aristocats and Jungle Book represent Disney at its most humorous. Gone are the overtly grand moral statements ('when you wish upon a star'), something which 101 Dalmatians is not interested in. Instead, watching it feels more about having a good time. Consequently, this might not make it one of Disney's best, but the humor and its not-too-serious nature more than make up for it.
This is Walt Disney's 17th full-length animated feature film, a story where a litter of puppies, belonging to Dalmatians Pongo and Perdita, are abducted by the minions of Cruella De Vil, who plans on making fur coats out of the pups. As a result, Pongo and Perdita go on a mission to rescue their children.The actors did a nice job in voicing the characters and the animation, although not very vibrant and appeared washed-up, had a somewhat nice, jazzy feel to it. The characters were given their own personality and charm and I thought the banding together of the various animals and dogs to help Pongo and Perdita rescue their pups was a great act of heroism. However, the plot and story take a very long time to gain any steam and, aside from the rescue mission scenes, a large part of the movie was actually pretty boring. I thought the main human character, Roger, had the personality of wallpaper and the romance subplot was a little too sappy.The villains, though, were the highlight of the film. Cruella was crafty, sly and hilariously captivating, and is one of the few most interesting elements of the movie. The two minions, Horace and Jasper, were also funny.Overall, kids would probably like this movie more than adults, but I thought this animated version is a tad better than the live action version with Jeff Daniels.Grade C-
'101 Dalmatians' is a perfect example of classic Walt Disney animation and storytelling. It has an air of elegance thanks to its English setting and characters. The unforgettable villainy and look of Cruella de Vil will forever be imprinted in the minds of children and their parents alike. It's a tale of family loyalty that cautions us to always be wary of other people's motives and greed. And of course kids will find the puppies cute as well.Dalmatian Pongo is tired of his bachelor-dog life. He spies lovely Perdita and maneuvers his master, Roger, into meeting Perdita's owner, Anita. The owners fall in love and marry, keeping Pongo and Perdita together too. After Perdita gives birth to a litter of 15 puppies, Anita's old school friend Cruella De Vil wants to buy them all. Roger declines her offer, so Cruella hires the criminal Badun brothers to steal them -- so she can have a fur coat.
Pongo was a carefree bachelor in London and then he decided that his pet Roger Radcliffe needed a mate. Pongo is a dalmatian. Then he spots Perdita walking with her human Anita. Anita's fur-loving friend Cruella takes a fancy to the 15 dalmatian pups. When Roger refuses to sell the puppies, Cruella hires thugs Jasper and Horace to kidnap the pups. They overpower Nanny and then hold up in a crumbling mansion with other dalmatian puppies. There are 99 puppies in total.Let's face it. Cruella De Vil is one of the more outlandish Disney villains. She isn't scary as much as silly. The movie opens with a fun rom-com story. I like the narration by Pongo. The movie stalls a little in the middle after the puppies have been stolen while the dogs haven't started on their search. It's a pretty short movie which is a good thing because it doesn't overstay its welcome.
Disney's 101 Dalmations is fine for kids. Whether it really holds up for adults I'm not sure - I actually haven't seen the whole film in quite a while. But it holds up, for what it's worth, in my mind as a fun spectacle for kids. There are so many Dalmatians, naturally, not all of them can get personalities. Most of them don't, really. The real focal point though is the villain - Cruella DeVille - and of course with villains like her, who needs strong heroes? She, and the actress voicing her, Betty Lou Gerson, are eating up scenery with the large fur coats and wild,crazy eyes. Even her design is creative and just a bit warped in that villainous way to hold up well; I still remember her driving in the climax and that being as memorable a set piece as any in the classic Walt Disney animation era (that is, before his death).And it's enough that the Dalmatians can get around with some direction - and some help of furry friends (the shaggy dog Colonel and the cat Segreant Tibbs, are very entertaining and funny supporting characters) - to get through the narrative. So that even if they aren't always as great as the villain, they have enough to keep things moving. The animation itself is not as 'polished' as the widescreen epic that came before it, Sleeping Beauty, but that's fine.More than fine; this is a cartoon, and it has some of the rough contours of the animation studio trying to find their way, and, usually, getting there. Apparently Xerox was also used to make copies of all the dogs, and there's kind of a hypnotic quality to the shots of them all running in unison, one after another after another. It's scratchy, and this would continue for a number of movies (Aristocats for one), but I liked the look - it's taking a chance on a different style, and it connects in the way to the high-velocity adventure style of the story.So, for the kids? Sure. For adults? Well, there's always Cruella.
A sweet Disney movie. Mostly meant for children but has something for adults too. Adorable characters, nice story, happy ending.Not perfect though. The opening background and set up are wonderful. After that, however, the movie does feel like it loses some of its charm and substance as it then becomes a bit of a caper. Becomes more of a kid's movie the longer it goes on.Doesn't overstay its welcome though. Is just the right length.Animation is okay, for the time. Some of it feels a bit basic, but that might just be compared to the animation of today.Good voice work. Only recognisable name among the voice providers is Rod Taylor, making it even more impressive - it was a cast of mostly unknowns.
This is a very cute Disney film crime-mystery classic animated film. The story is not bad - it's pretty interesting. And Cruella De Vil really is a vile character because she wants the puppies to make a Dalmatian fur coat - I will admit she is a cool looking toon and sometimes funny with her anger but she is definitely one of Disney's most villainous characters - she tops the most evil list.Some reviewers are not fond of the animation (the actual artwork) in 101 Dalmatians. I personally like the art in this film - it has a dark or mysterious look and feel to it - so it's perfect for the story.The only thing I felt was missing from this movie was some catchy songs like most of Disney's film animations. This movie needed some jazz to spice it up just a bit (IMO).Want to make it a double feature? Try other Disney classic animated films like 'Lady and the Tramp', 'The AristoCats', 'The Jungle Book' or 'Dumbo'.8.5/10
I love this move. It is so adorable. Cruella De Ville used to scare the crap out of me, though, when I was a little kid. But I still love it. It is so cute. I loved all the little puppies. This movie, if you haven't seen it, which is like three people on the entire planet, it is about a family of Dalmatians. Two adult Dalmatians have puppies. Then Cruella De Ville wanted to steal them, to make a fur coat out of them. How cruel is that? And then as she's trying to steal them, the puppies run away and everyone, including Cruella, the puppies parents, and the owners are now looking for these puppies. I love how it ends up with one hundred and one Dalmatians, hence the title of the movie.
I have always thought that the animation and story of '101 Dalmatians' were actually a bit weak. After all, a crazy lady who wants to steal puppies to make them into a coat ISN'T especially deep. And, the xerox process they used in this film did make the movie look a lot cheaper than the exquisitely animated films of the 1950s. But what makes it very good and well worth watching is the character Cruella De Vil. Her voice work by Betty Lou Gerson was just fabulous--and very obviously inspired by Tallulah Bankhead. Her mannerisms, style and voice were Ms. Bankhead all the way--but with a wonderful insane quality that made a horrific act (slaughtering puppies) so ridiculously comical that it was watchable and fun. Otherwise, this film would have been seen as cruel and just awful. Plus the 'Cruella' song was a hoot--with great lyrics and a perfect accompaniment to this horrid character.The bottom line is that I nearly scored this one a 9--it's awfully good. But having the sub-standard animation brought it down a point. Enjoyably sick and funny--even for adult audiences.
101 Dalmations is my number one most loved Walt Disney movie of all time. I remember watching it for the first time with my sister and my dad and we thought it was very special. The scene where the puppies just kept getting born with more and more of them all over the kitchen and house was so exciting to us we couldn't believe how many puppies had been born. The dog characters were all great and we loved the couple who owned the dogs and the maid. Cruella de Ville is the best Disney villain of all time in my opinion too she is so evil and insane and gets a great come upping in the end. Her henchman are pretty funny and scary at the same time too. Any kid would love watching this Disney movie it is one of the best.
I won't set the plot of '101 Dalmatians' out in any detail, as it is already well-known from this film, the nineties remake and Dodie Smith's original book (a great childhood favourite of mine). Briefly, however, it deals with the theft of a litter of Dalmatian puppies by a woman named Cruella De Vil (an obvious pun on 'cruel devil') who wants to turn them into fur coats. The human authorities are baffled, so it falls to the kidnapped puppies' parents, Pongo and Perdita, to track them down and rescue them- along with a lot more Dalmatian puppies acquired by Cruella for the same nefarious purpose. The film is rather different in look from a lot of earlier Disney cartoons, which were characterised by bright, even garish, colours. Here, by contrast, the colour scheme is surprisingly restrained for a film aimed at children. Much of the action takes place either at night or in the depths of a snowy English winter, and the palette reflects this. Black and white are much in evidence (as one might expect in a film about black-and-white dogs), and the other predominant colours are blues, greys and purples. Unusually for a Disney cartoon, the action takes place in a modern-day Britain, and this restrained look may also reflect American ideas of the British as a nation of quiet, restrained, phlegmatic people, qualities exemplified by the human protagonists, Roger and Anita Radcliffe. (In Smith's novel their surname was Dearly, and Roger was an economist or financier by profession, not a musician as he is here). Actually, these qualities are also exemplified by the animal protagonists as well; Pongo and Perdita are essentially Roger and Anita transmuted into canine form, and the various animals they meet in the course of their adventures generally represent recognisable British 'types', such as The Colonel, an Old English Sheepdog with a distinctly military bearing. (His friends, or should I say subordinates, are a horse named Captain and a cat named Sergeant Tibbs). One person, however, who is neither quiet nor restrained is the villainess Cruella de Vil. She is perhaps Disney's most memorable villain, a monstrously hyperactive woman with an obsession with fur; she is always seen wearing a fur coat. (In the novel her husband was a furrier, but he does not appear in the film). Her main distinguishing feature is her hair, half-black and half-white. The subsidiary villains are the comically incompetent Badun brothers, Jasper and Horace, whom she employs to steal the puppies.This was one of my favourite films as a child. I was a great animal- lover and generally found that Disney cartoons involving animals, like this one and 'The Jungle Book', were a lot funnier and less sentimental than all those boring girly fairy-tales like 'Snow White' and 'The Sleeping Beauty'. I also liked the fact that the action took place not in some fantastic never-never land but in the real England in which I was growing up. My one complaint was that the music (in comparison with something like 'The Jungle Book') was a bit forgettable; even though Roger is a songwriter there are only three songs. I recently saw it again for the first time in many years, and I can say that the animals- especially the spotty dogs themselves- are just as endearing, and their adventures just as amusing- as they were in my childhood. Some goofs. Although the Disney organisation seem to have gone to some lengths to make the film as British as possible, one or two errors have crept in. British television programmes were not directly sponsored in the early sixties. A 'creek' in British English means a saltwater inlet, not a freshwater stream. The Suffolk landscape is not as hilly as it is depicted here. I will, however, let them off over that girder bridge- they are not common in Britain, but not completely unknown. I will also let them off over the name 'Perdita'- strictly speaking, Latin grammar demands that it be stressed on the first syllable, but the actual pronunciation in Britain tends to vary.
Walt Disney once again produces an animated film centered around dogs, this time Dalmations to be specific, as bachelor Roger and his dog Pongo one day meet single girl Anita and her dog Perdita, and of course they are the perfect match, and fall in love. Pongo and Perdita have a big litter of pups that somehow grows to 101, much to their exasperation! But when evil woman Cruella De Vil finds out, she decides to turn them all into a coat(!). Of course, they are appalled, but when Cruella has her two henchmen kidnap the pups, it's Pongo and Perdita to the rescue. Appealing film with good humor and animation, and Cruella herself among the most memorable Disney villains.
One Hundred and One Dalmatians is a classic Disney film from the company's brilliant late 50's and early 60's period. The film has a number of Disney high points including fantastic supporting characters, great suspense and a heavy atmosphere. The film can be considered another excellent feature for the legendary company.The story sees Dalmatian Pongo and his 'pet' Roger find love with two of their kind in Perdita and Anita. When Perdita gives birth to 15 puppies the cruel Cruella De Vil wishes to buy them but is turned away. With the help of her bumbling henchmen she kidnaps the puppies in order to make fur coats of them. Its then up to Pongo and Perdita, with the help of a collection of animals, to find the puppies and return to London. The story is simplistic but wonderfully executed. It has so many great elements that make it such an engaging movie, from the way dogs view their owners to the many escape attempts. The characters are superb. Rod Taylor is perfect as the very likable Pongo who we see as brave and caring as the film goes on. The relationship between him and Perdita is better than most as they do care for each other. Cruella is one of Disney's stronger villains, it's the way she is so crazed and manic but always trying to be stylish that makes her so entertaining. Jasper and Horace are brilliant henchmen, supplying lots of fun comic relief. Their so inept and clumsy that there's never a dull moment with them. The team of the Colonel, Tibbs and the Captain are brilliant. The Colonel is lovingly silly and Tibbs is so likable due to his never say die attitude. Roger and Anita are good as they are presented as a normal pleasant couple. The other dogs that help out like Danny the Great Dane and Towser are nice, solid supporting characters.Though the rougher animation isn't to everyone's taste it does fit in really well here. The way it looks fits in with the gritty darkness of London and the wilds of the countryside, it's a nice change from the angular style of the films preceding it. When you consider the amount of puppies they had to animate it's an impressive feat. It is certainly one of the Disney's most suspense filled and exciting films. It's not very often that a Disney climax has a car chase and it's an outstanding sequence. The whole search for the puppies has a brilliantly tense feel and watching Cruella search for them has some really well made strong moments. This leads on to another highlight which is the atmosphere the film has. The whole 'twilight bark' is a great piece and the scenes where Tibbs and the Colonel investigate the matter have a really effective dark feel. These are underlined by the superb visuals of a gloomy London and the demonic looking 'hell hall'. The music is also very memorable as it contains the usual solid score Disney does, as well as the fantastic songs ''Cruella De Vil'' and ''Dalmatian Plantation''. The other effective scenes include a humorous look at how dog owners are similar to their pets and the what's my crime TV show that's funny. This is one of Disney's most entertaining movies filled with many great elements.
101 Dalmations (the animated one NOT the 1996 version with Glen Close)was Disney's 17th Animated Classic and tells the tale of two people who meet in a park by Roger's dog who fell in love with Anita's dog and the two owners get married. Later Pongo's female companion has babies but when Anita's former mate Cruella De Vil wants them for herself she refuses and Cruella hires two dimwitted men to steal them while Anita and Roger aren't there.From here on it there's laughter in almost every scene. From that wide- eyed cat who helps them escape,to the part where Cruella looks rather wacky looking(if you watch it near the end there's a scene that will scare the crap out of yeah)and the dimwitted robbers getting kicked by a horse was hilarious.The animation is really good yet not as good as lets say Aladdin as its done in pencil drawing and you can clearly see the circles on the charcther design. Also Anita and Roger remind me of the new characters from the upcoming movie Frozen but still is 101 Dalmatians my all time favourite NO but was it good YES.Im giving it a 9 out of 10.
1O1 Dalmatians is a great movie with a really enjoyable and heartwarming storyline and some lovely colorful characters that always take me back to my childhood.I watched this movie many times when I was younger,and even seeing it today I still love all these characters,the music and also Rod Taylor's voice as Pongo.Its very short,not even an hour and a half long,so its a nice movie to watch if you don't feel very patient to watch anything that stretches out too much.The movie is a must see for anyone who loves classic Disney animated movies,and if you don't then there must be something wrong with you.Cruella De Vil robs 99 dalmatian puppies to make them into fur coats,now its up to the puppies parents to save them with some help from some other friendly animals in their town.
101 Dalmatians feels heavy and dark for an early Disney film. I am not sure whether it was trying to raise a message on animal cruelty or were they just trying a good tale and just using it as a backdrop, but either one it's still something that is worth seeing.This story is based on a children's story by Dodie Smith and written for the screen by Bill Peet. The film's premise is that there is this scary lady who wants to steal Pongo and Perdita's children and turn them into coats. Peet has done four films with Disney and those are Cinderella, Sword In The Stone, 101 Dalmatians and Peter Pan. Out of all of these films, I felt that his best was Peter Pan but his darkest is 101 Dalmatians. This film gets into a dark place once Cruella De Vil is introduced and some children may find her frightening, when her eyes went red it was one of the most frightening things Disney has ever done. Once the stealing of puppies begins, I started to see the themes of genocide and imprisonment. After when they escape it becomes like a survivalist film. It feels similar to world war 2 films like Schindler's List and Defiance which I admired. The beginning of the film feels a little misleading, as it feels positive like something from Lady and the Tramp but then that adds to that shock you would feel when this woman comes in with evil intentions and a horrible personality. It was pretty funny though when the film starts and thinking that the narration is from the human's perspective but rather from the dog and we find out through calling of the human from Pongo, a 'Pet'.This film is directed by Clyde Geronimi and Hamilton Luske. These guys have directed some well known Disney classics, in particular Lady and the Tramp, and so there is some expectations with this film. I think with their experience from Lady and the Tramp, it was easier to animate and needing not to do a lot of research in animating it. The third director for this film is Wolfgang Reitherman. This is his first feature length film for Disney and I bet he was the reason that this film had that edge to it, whether it's the music or the animation. This is the guy who used Jazz and R&B for his future Disney flicks. I feel that they did a decent job. I can't say that this film will be the most remembered but with a memorable villain and edgy feel to it, it is deserving of its status as a Disney classic.The animation of this film is a start of a string of films that uses a dirty look. The animation is not as clean as compared to Cinderella or Lady and the Tramp but it is effective as it captures urban London so well that it won't be so much of a distraction. The dalmatians are drawn very well but can get rather repetitive, then they did half to draw 99 dalmatian puppies. The animators have improved from their last Disney efforts, Sleeping Beauty, as there is more personality in the characters, especially the people. They drew Cruella very menacingly and so uniquely in the film. She stands out when she is in the scene, especially near the beginning when standing next to Roger and Anita.The music of this film has a mix of both orchestral and jazz. It feels like a bridge between their orchestral dominated film, Sleeping Beauty, and the film soon to follow, The Jungle Book. I enjoyed the songs that Roger plays as it feels catchy and edgy. I like that the film did not decide to become too melodramatic with its score and dis something a little more simple.This film is not Disney's top classic but it is fun and something different from the films that Disney usually puts out, aside from Alice In Wonderland. I suggest let your child be a little bit more mature or have seen at least a decent amount of Disney animations before watch this. I recommend it to anyone but don't get your hopes too much on it.
Voice acting and visual style, two of the most important components of animated films, are particularly well-done in this Disney outing. A wide range of urban and rural British accents is featured, and not for nothing: the story begins in a posh part of London and then moves into the English countryside. As the voices change, so does the art. The spotted motif of the title sequence feels appropriately modern (in the 1960s sense of the word), while London's parks and art deco flats are reminiscent of the interwar period, and scenes of foggy downs and farms are pleasantly rustic. The story itself, hinging as it does on a plot to murder and skin puppies, is rather sick, but that sort of darkness was once typical of great children's stories. The lead canine roles here are weak, especially the overly-demure wife and mother Perdita, but this allows the supporting players in the underground military organization known as the 'Twilight Bark' to steal the show. Members of the Twilight Bark seem somehow familiar, as if we have seen or heard them in half- remembered war films. For example, the movie's lone cat, Sergeant Tibbs, is reminiscent of many screen portrayals of stoic, sensible middle- echelon British soldiers. It is an indication of the film's intelligence that Tibbs is not villainized just because he happens to belong to a different species than the chief protagonists.
Due to the under performance of Sleeping Beauty, many changes were made in the studio, and they had to lower the budgets of their films, thus the Xerography process. Two years after Sleeping Beauty, 101 Dalmatians was the first film to be made in Xerography, and is considered the start of the Dark Ages to many people.The story is about a dog couple named Pongo and Perdita, who give birth to 15 puppies. An old friend of their owner Anita named Cruella DeVil comes by to attempt to buy the puppies, but when Anita's husband Roger refuses, she storms off and sends two men to kidnap them. They end up with 84 more puppies, and Pongo and Perdita has to rescue them before the 99 Dalmatians are skinned for fur coat.The characters in the movie are alright. Roger and Anita are your modern, quirky couple, Pogo and Perdita are your everyday dogs, and the Dalmatians are... Dalmatians. The breakthrough and the most memorable character in this movie is the infamous Cruella DeVil. She is so classy yet trashy at the same time, and is so rambunctious. Her sidekicks are the enjoyable bumbling fools.There is only one song in this movie called 'Cruella DeVil'. It has a sophisticated jazzy sound to it, and the score is decent.The animation is a HUGE change from all of its predecessors. The xerography process gives the film this trashy, lazy look that makes the film look cheap, so it is not as good as the other films. This is one of the few films where the xerography process looks good, but it is still not up to par with the earlier films.This film has your attention, even though the plot is not necessarily strong and the characters are not the most endearing. It is an entertaining, fun film which the family will like, even though it is not as good as the other films.
I simply love this movie.The first time I watched it, I was a just a little kid, so when I decided to re-watch it as an adult, I was afraid that my impressions about this animated film just weren't the same. Fortunately, I'm glad to say that this movie aged very well, having a very interesting story with many likable characters and lots of funny scenes.This movie was highly enjoyable from beginning to end, having a wonderful animation style, a beautiful character design and nice music.In my opinion, this one of the greatest animated flicks ever made, with a great entertainment and artistic value. And it is certainly much better than the two live-action movies, which lacked of the charm and fun that this film had.
'101 Dalmatians' has all of the conventions to stand the test of time and rightfully claims it's place among the rest of the Disney classics. To me, it will always be one of my favorites, it is fast-paced, well-written and adapted from a book that I have never seen nor read. The characters are all colorful personalities that almost stand out as Charles Dickens-esque creations, and being that the story takes place in and around the city of London and it's neighboring countryside, it seems only fitting.The animation is nicely done, and the static backgrounds at times remind me of other 1960's animated cartoons, specifically 'Jonny Quest' or 'Birdman' which I also happened to love when I was a kid. And the opening sequence is definitely something to brag about, trippy as hell, and was probably inspirational to acid freaks and sober minds alike who were lucky enough to see '101 Dalmatians' when it was released in 1961.Disney villains are always something to be talked about, and '101 Dalmatians' is no exception: Cruella De Vil, voiced by Betty Lou Gerson, is one of the most memorable of all Disney villains, as are Jasper and Horace. The ending sequence is a suspenseful chase scene down a snowy mountainous road that still holds me in it's grasp today. Definitely stands the test of time, and definitely still worth watching.101 DALMATIANS -----9/10.
When I was a kid, Disney's animated 101 Dalmatians was my favorite movie of all time. I absolutely loved it and watched my VHS copy of it so much that I could quote the movie from beginning to end. A couple of months ago I decided to re-watch the film, and I wasn't disappointed.Sure it no longer is my favorite movie, nor my favorite animated movie, or even my favorite movie in the Disney Animated Canon. But man this movie brought back a great nostalgic feel. There are many reasons why this film works. One is the villain, she is so horrible that you just want the dogs to rip her face off. The two hero's, Pongo and Perdita are also really good, as shown by the lengths they will go to save their children. The puppies are cute. And even the humans have enough charm for me to like them. And all the side characters are great too.The animation is really cool, for a movie made in 1961 it really looks like it was made no earlier than 1988. There are some really good jokes, the action scenes are fun, but the main reason this movie works is it's characters.
Based on the novel of the same name by Dodie Smith, 101 Dalmatians takes place in London where Pongo, a male dalmatian, is living in London with his master, Roger, a bachelor songwriter who has yet to sell his first tune. Bored with their single existence, Pongo arranges for Roger to meet Anita, a pretty young woman who just happens to have a female Dalmatian named Perdita. It is not long before love blossoms all around and a double wedding takes place. A few months later, Perdita gives birth to 15 puppies, much to the delight of Cruella De Vil, a wealthy, wicked former schoolmate of Anita's whose burning passion is to own a coat made of Dalmatian pelts. When she is unable to purchase the puppies, she has them 'dognapped' and brought to her crumbling estate in the country, where 84 other Dalmatians are also being held captive. All attempts by the police to find the missing pups fail, and the desperate Pongo and Perdita appeal to the dogs of London, via the 'twilight bark.' Led by The Colonel, an indomitable shaggy dog and a cat named Sergeant Tibbs, all other dogs comes to the rescue and, aided by geese, cows, and horses, tracks down the missing puppies.Is 101 Dalmatians on par with earlier Disney classics a few decades later? You bet it is! The animation is extremely beautiful with cute character animation. The songs are catchy and well-executed I could hum 'Cruella De Vil' for nearly five minutes. The voice acting is pretty good and the story is unbelievably touching that could bring tears to their eyes and mixes courage, humor, suspense, and bravery extremely well with very amazing chase scenes. 101 Dalmatians is Disney's masterpiece of the classic 60s and would recommended as one of the greatest works ever made. Happy 50th Anniversary, 101 Dalmatians!
The story of courage, bravery, suspense, humor, love and more! What starts out as two bachelors, one being a dog, ends with action and adventure. They finally meet a 'perfect' match and next thing you know the dogs have puppies! But unfortunately, there is a relative in town who's not quite the nicest person you'd meet. And she wants those dogs to be hers... more specifically their coats! However the father and mother dog set out to stop it before it's too late. They meet some friends along the way and have to deal with tons of trials and worse.Classic chase scenes, suspense, and a lot of adventure make this movie a classic no one should forget! Rated 8/10
Just last year, our family took on a pet dog for the first time so my perception of this Disney classic is obviously now biased. Seriously though, I'd have enjoyed it anyway. It's old fashioned family entertainment, easy to watch, but highly sentimental, of course. The animation was to my inexpert eyes, very good, particularly the tricky job of imparting personality to so any Dalmatian pups. Pongo and Hattie, the pups' parents could be Lady and the Tramp a bit further down the road while Cruella De Ville follows the models of preceding Disney female baddies, only with even more flounce and extravagance. Apart from the 'Cruella De Ville' song, there's a distinct lack of musical interludes, which serves the purposes of the one-long-chase plot-line reasonably well. There's gentle humour as you'd expect and a tolerable running gag with the little pup that's forever hungry. I thought the best sequence though was right at the start when Pongo persuaded his owner to cosy up to Mattie's in the park, but the narrative manages to engage all the way through with the 'human' characters also achieving sufficient degrees of personality to embellish the tale before the obligatory happy ending. You'd have to be pretty hard-hearted not to enjoy this delightful animation which I took pleasure in doing today for the very first time.
101 Dalmatians is a very good movie indeed which is said more for its sequel which had to be one of the worst sequels. The live action 1996 version was good but no where near as good as this. The animation is wonderful and the characters are great I love Jasper and Horace they were wonderful and funny to watch I love their Truck I think this has to be one of the most forgotten classics and getting ruined by a sequel which Sucked. I was watching this movie again one youtube and I gotta say its still good to watch. The puppies are cute and this movie has to get another chance so please give it another chance I give this a 9.1 out of 10 still wrath watching
Of all Disney's post-Golden Age work, One Hundred and One Dalmations is my favorite, though it oddly features many of the things which bug me about Disney's other post-sixties work. The production methods are cheaper, the structure more focused on various side characters than its protagonists, and clean-up methods are noticeably sloppier. These problems were due in tandem to the financial failure of Sleeping Beauty and to Walt Disney's waning interest in the animated feature department as he delved more into his theme park (anyone who thinks Disney's input into the animated features is oversold because he didn't draw anything for it need only compare Disney's early work with that toward and after the end of his life to see how vital he was to the process).What makes it work regardless is its style. Disney brought in the input and influence of the great cartoonist Ronald Searle, and combined this with Ken Anderson's UPA esquire art direction (which had previously been explored in shorts like Toot, Whistle, Plunk, and Boom). I'll also defend the xeroxing methods as having been an initially positive development, which allowed the animation to appear much more organic and handdrawn. Granted, it hinders believability at first, but it brings out a pleasing gutsiness and exciting individuality that I wish hadn't been wasted after The Jungle Book. For once, the human characters work as much as the animals, as the animators just the right balance between caricature and realism.Everyone is on their A-Game here, from John Lounsbery's comic animation on Horace and Jasper (an obvious influence on Sylvain Chomet) to Milt Kahl's consummate professionalism on Pongo and Roger (which isn't his most theatrical stuff, but does its job perfectly). As always, though, it's the villain who gets to have the most fun, and Marc Davis delivers his masterpiece with Cruella de Vil. Years later, Milt Kahl would respond to this marvelously bombastic work, which makes a brilliantly imposing use of her fur coat, with Medusa in The Rescuers. For a master like that, who considered himself (with good reason) to be the finest of Disney's animators, to attempt to one up a colleague is saying something. Not that this makes the animation better or worse, but I'll also point out that there was a single animator who worked for two years and the accuracy of the dots on the damn dags. The climax also remains one of the finest action scenes in American animation, a school of animation that I usually find far too conservative in terms of action.Rather than splinter the narrative with its many characters, I think they work with the design to make this film's world one of the most fun to watch in any Disney film. To me, it seems heavily influenced by Hitchcock, making this the only Disney movie of this period to feel a bit like a thriller (only instead of being framed, Pongo and Perdita simply lack the speech functions to go to the useless men who are only good for burning down Bambi's forest anyway). The ensemble nature prevents it from being truly Hitchcockian, but the cast of characters met along the way do recall films like The 39 Steps or Saboteur. Nearly every one of the characters are enjoyable and add to the narrative without intruding too much upon it (aside from the collie, who doesn't leave much of an impression other than his poorly animated fur). Captain and Sgt. Tibbs are especially ludicrous and delightful, in how they represent the most ragtag military unit imaginable. Even the entirely irrelevant television sections are great satiric fun.My one big complaint is that Roger and Anita wind up disappearing through the entire second and most of the third act, but it's not too big an issue in the long run, this being an animal story after all. Other problems are minor matters of animation. While I'll continue to insist that the Xerox methods had serious virtues, the reused animation is jarring (though in the case of this film, it's much more skillfully used than in later works that abused it).For these reasons, I love One Hundred and One Dalmations. It's witty, fun to look at, and highly entertaining. Alas, it also marks a final triumph before a steep decline, which didn't hurt the sixties work too much but crippled Disney in the seventies, and even the next few Disney films had their problems.
As a monkey lover (not like that you dirty boy! Lol!) I have trouble watching films about animals which don't feature monkeys. After overcoming this initial disappointment, I sat down to watch this Walter Dizzy classic. The story is about a family who have a hundred Dalmation dogs (the ones which look like zebras) and are entering the American version of Crufts- 'The Abe Lincoln Sponsored Stars And Stripes Canine Appreciation Gala Contest Bonanza For Dog Breeders Featuring Exciting Races, Daring Obstacles, Grooming Awards, And Stalwart Obedience Show!' or better known as TALSSASCAGCBFDBFERDOGAASOS! The family hear about a loophole that if someone has 101 dogs of the same breed they automatically win the top prize- the Woofey, and a million one dollar bits. Their dogs are mongrels you see- stupid, ugly, and disobedient. The first part of the show is taken up with the family trying to train their dogs to sit, sleep, run, eat, dance, and sing- this leads to some wonderful hits such as 'Spot The Wrong'un!', 'Who Let The Dogs Out', 'Barken', 'Oh What A Lovely Bone' and 'Get Off My Nice Clean Carpet You Dirty Bitch'. Realising their dogs are useless they try to exploit the loop. Most of the film is taken up by the owners and their lovely children trying to get their puppies to mate so that they reach the target of 101- this led to some questionable scenes which young audiences were not prepared for and the eventual 'disappearances of many of the staff. 40 years later a mass burial site was exhumed where a number of bodies of the staff were found- some with bones inserted in the wrong spot (pardon the puns). Bette Davis spices things up a tad with her portrayal of Cruel Fella D'Evil- a local mobster who went mental when her husband was murdered by the Godfather, Don Niro De Pachinko. She hates the sound of dogs, but loves the taste, and has heard an ancient myth which speaks of 'the flysh of the one hundred and first born pup shall give eternal life to he who shalt feast of it'. She tries to kidnap number 101 (Ploppy) and eat it, but the other dogs set traps up for her around the house, such as messes under the windows, messes on the hallways, and worst of all, messes on the door handles. I won't spoil the ending for you, but it ends by the plot coming to and end and the credits rolling. Although this was filmed about a hundred (and one!) years ago, the graphics and camera-work are very enticing. Disney were the only studio rich enough back then to make their films in colour, which is why this looks so could compared to other rubbish like Castle Blanka. Unfortunately the unsavoury nature of the plot combined with the toilet humour, and the fact that it was basically a remake of the Nazi propaganda film 'Eine hundert und eine Rettungen' or 101 Salvations mean that it makes for inappropriate viewing. Best Scene: Fred Willard's humorous commentary throughout the various stages of the dog trials- it was one of his first appearances, at the age of 42.
This is a great film for kids and the whole family...Beautifully directed and beautiful colors with a great cast of vocal talents.. Cruella De vil is one of the creepiest, most hated cartoon characters I have ever seen..A dog and his pet Roger, falls for another dalmatian and her pet Anita. Anita works for the fashion industry and her boss Cruella wants her puppies to make a coat of a new style, a spotted dalmatian one. Of course Roger and Anita wont give the dogs up, so Cruella has two crazy men do her work for her and steal them, along with many more a total of 99 puppies.The dogs send out a barking alert and the barking spreads from London all the way to De vil's house in the woods and then the dogs go out and try to find their pups..I loved a lot of things about this cute little toon. I loved Cruella and her evilness as a villain. I love how they portrayed the dogs as a family and the humans were secondary. I loved the twilight bark that helped them spread the messages to other dogs. I loved the cat that helped out with the rescue, he gave me some good laughs. The color and animation was beautiful. The movie speeds by really fast and didn't get boring...I liked it and give 5 stars out of 10 which is a lot for me to give a cartoon, esp. a Disney one.
This 1961 animated feature is one of the films that Walt Disney produced during the last decade of his life, and one of the Disney films I remember seeing in my childhood. I was born nearly twenty years after Walt's death, but saw many Disney movies as a kid, some of which were produced by him and others made by the company after he died. 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' was one of them, even though I didn't see this one as many times as I saw certain other Disney features during the 90's, and couldn't remember it as clearly. I watched it for the first time in probably over a decade in 2007, and again nearly three years later. I can usually expect these films to still impress me after all these years, including this one.A Dalmatian dog named Pongo lives in a London flat with his single owner (or 'pet,' as he is referred to), Roger, who plays the piano and writes songs. Bored with single life, the dog sees a female Dalmatian named Perdita with her female owner, Anita, walking by the window, and thinks this is a perfect opportunity to get himself a mate and Roger a wife. He gets his owner to take him for a walk in the park so they can meet the pair, and as Pongo planned, they both find romance. Roger and Anita soon get married, as do Pongo and Perdita, and with the four of them now living together, it isn't too long before Perdita gives birth to a litter of puppies, fifteen in total. Cruella De Vil, an evil former schoolmate of Anita's, wants to buy all the puppies and make a coat out of them! After she is denied permission to buy any of them, she hires two men, Jasper and Horace, to kidnap the litter! After the police fail to find the kidnapped puppies, Pongo and Perdita must call upon other animals to help them try and find their missing young before it's too late! The animation in this film is a little different from that of the previous Disney efforts. It was the first Disney flick to use the photocopying technique. This worked out well, as the animation here is very good, especially with the backgrounds, showing an animated version of London and memorable images of winter countryside. 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' also has basically everything that usually makes Disney animations entertaining for all ages. It's often funny, with scenes such as Pongo and Colonel (an old sheepdog) struggling to communicate via barks, and many gags involving Jasper and Horace and sometimes the way Cruella treats these two. Also, the characters are well crafted and the adventure gets very exciting at times. There are some weaker spots in the film, such as the overlong piano playing near the beginning and the rushed scene showing Nanny the housekeeper's reaction when she finds the puppies are gone, but there's no need to dwell on these petty flaws when the film as a whole is so entertaining. Overall, it's another good piece of animation for the whole family to watch.
One of Walt Disney's popular animated movie 101 Dalmatians!!!!! It has a wonderful story of pongo and Perdita with their 'Pets' Roger and Anita. they have 15 puppies together and they all get captured by one of Disney's most memorable villains Cruella DeVil!!!!! The animal fashion lover.This has absolutely great animation with no help of computer graphics. This movie is a treasure of Disney's films.This was the first Disney movie with the use of the Xerox process. Even though Disney did not like the style of the animation and background. He was happy that it made such a success.I love the movie and that it's awesome that it will not be forgotten anytime soon.
I'll just say it. One Hundred And One Dalmations is just seriously cute. It's dark plot is covered by it's sweetness, but that isn't a bad thing.All those little puppies are cute, especially Patch and Lucky. I like how the accents matched the location, which is London, England. A lot of films don't cut that these days.Anyway, even though it was sort of predictable, it's a really good movie that Disney fans should see. It's sweet, funny, and a woman(Cruella De Vil) who wants to make coat out of puppy skins, wow, one of the darkest plots I've seen. But don't worry, like I said the sweetness and cuteness cover that up. So yeah, Great cute film!
And yet another dog film brought to us by Disney. When it comes to animation, Dalmatians started a trend in Disney I don't really care for. Strapped budgets required some money-saving scheme, so in walked Xerox and with it the very scratchy-outliney style that lasted through The Rescuers. There's just something about that style that bugs me- perhaps it suggests a lack of refinement and finishing. Anywho, it is what it is, and despite my predisposition, I did love the elegance of the dogs- they always felt wonderfully sleek and fluid. Surprisingly, there are very few songs. In fact, there is only the infamous Cruella De Vil and a short blurb at the ending. I guess the extreme popularity of Cruella more than made up for the lack of other songs.When reviewing this film, I feel I must draw at least some upon comparisons to Lady and the Tramp. They were made so close together, yet appear so radically different. You can see the radical changes in Disney really start to break through around 1960 (it happens again at the end of the 80s). Once again, we are dealing with a dog's point of view, but for some reason it does not feel as entirely faithful to that point as in its predecessor. There is just a little too much focus on the human characters- the dogs begin to run into danger of stepping the boundary of cartoon-animals-that-talk land, instead of being purely animated characters (that trend only gets worse from here).What keeps this film from getting a higher score is it's not as easy to get plugged into as some stories. Being more of an adventure film than a love story, Dalmations just doesn't leave that much impact on me. It was suspenseful and well-crafted, but it never gripped me with meaningful relationships or outstanding characters or charged lines. Not to say that adventure films are inherently bad, but outside of spectacular sequences or plots, they are harder to invest in. And Dalmatians simply didn't offer me anything investable.So in the end, Dalmatians is kind of like a piece of bubble gum. I never really crave it, but it's fun to get as a novelty once in a blue moon. And after 10 minutes of unsuppressed bubbles, I spit it out and it doesn't cross my mind again. It's good for a pleasurable throw-away afternoon, but has little use beyond that.Quote of the Film:-I live for furs. I worship furs! After all, is there a woman in all this wretched world who doesn't?
I always considered this one of Disney's lesser efforts, with Cruella DeVil being it's saving grace. One of the great movie villains of all time, she seemed to be the life of this story. However, after my two year old daughter became obsessed with several scenes, I found that I was able, after watching it over and over, to appreciate many of the little details.101 Dalmatians is the story of a family of puppies who are kidnapped by an evil fur-loving heiress who wants to make them into a coat. It's a fairly simple story, and not everything about it is entirely novel. The climactic car chase, for example, doesn't really have much to it when you break it down. Most of the characters are pretty bland, in contrast to the outrageous Cruella.Yet, I find myself appreciating these attributes, having grown tired of every children's movie since Aladdin showcasing at least one smart-alec, pop-culture referencing sidekick to plant the story firmly in the age of irony. It is refreshing to return to a time when we didn't have Eddie Murphy or Nathan Lane doing hyperactive voice-overs filled with in-jokes meant for the adults.In addition, I like the visual style, which other reviewers noted came about through a process meant to finish the film more cheaply, and which would be used for nearly twenty years of Disney movies. I especially enjoy the detail in the London street scenes, but I also like to watch the way the characters move, at times almost breaking out of the two-dimensional plane. Watch as Anita tries to walk around Roger while he is singing about Cruella. He jumps to the side to block her, and you feel the depth of the room better than you expect you could. There are also some great facial expressions (my favorite being the exasperated Anita as Roger descends the staircase at the reprise of 'Cruella DeVil'). Throw in a couple hidden references (some characters from Lady and The Tramp and some older Disney cartoons), along with a score that's fun to whistle, and I find that I don't really mind watching this one over and over. The animated sequel, 101 Dalmatians part 2, offers some laughs for fans of the original by bringing back some of the little details, such as showing Cruella's reconstructed car, and employing Thunderbolt and Kanine Krunchies as plot devices. However, comparing the new movie with the original, you can see how much has changed in the expectations for family entertainment. I get the idea that as long as movies are animated and don't contain anything outright offense, there will be people who praise it as decent children's viewing. Disney deserved his success because of the care he put into his movies--not just the look, but the story, the feel, the characters, what audiences would take from it. (For a jaw-dropping example of just how much thought went into a story, listen to one of the extras on the Bambi DVD where you 'listen in' on some of the planning sessions Disney had with his creative teams). Pixar seems to be the only ones doing anything that comes close to this today. That's why they deserve their success, too.
This is the best ever version of Walt Disney's original classic ever. When it came out on video in 1999 i was only little and missed out on this grand opportunity but in 2008 it was released again on a restored special edition 2 disc DVD which i had straight away for my 12th birthday. My favourite character is cruella devil and no artist ever drew her better than the brilliant Marc Davis. The voice was provided Betty Lou gerson who did a much better job at it than Susanne blakeslee and April Winchell , i think Betty Lou gerson was so amazing that she literally made cruella steal the film!!!!! Super super super super film better than the second by far.
This film is beautiful, and superior to the 1996 live action version. The animation is just beautiful, and I delighted in seeing those puppies's tails wagging. Those puppies were very cute, and a lack of any voice overs in the 1996 version was sorely missed. The scenes like the Twilight Bark added a sense of poignancy to the well-written story.I also want to say, I absolutely love the book by Dodie Smith, and I am 16. Another high point was the villain Cruella DeVil(voiced to perfection by Betty Lou Gerson), who was truly diabolical in every sense. The dogs, Pongo and Perdy were very lovable, and their scenes with the puppies were often very touching. Supporting characters like Tibbs, Captain, Colonel, and of course Jasper and Horace were very well done. The songs, were not as memorable as the ones in the Jungle Book, but at least they were tuneful. In conclusion, a beautiful and entertaining animated film, that is underrated in my opinion. 9/10 Bethany Cox
i really enjoyed this animated Disney classic.it's just a lot of fun.lots of action and excitement,and an excellent choice for the villain in Cruella Devil.whose is iconic(or should be)in my opinion.very young children may be a bit frightened of her,as she certainly is scary looking.her 2 henchman are quite inept,and provide a lot of comic relief.i also really liked the voice acting.i thought it fit well with the characters.the animation is also good,considering it is from 1961,though i'm sure it took a few years before that to complete.anyway,in my opinion,this classic is good fun for the whole family.my vote for 101 Dalmatians is an 8/10
My Take: An irresistible Disney classic. It's probably a bit strange to say this 1961 Disney animated movie as one of their best animate films in the Golden Age of the studio. Still, I ask no apologies. 101 DALMATIANS is a sweet, clever and splendidly entertaining animated adventure and, in my opinion, one of the very best films in their classic era. But lets face it! Although I took a fonding of Disney's classic animated films, some of them (PETER PAN comes to mind) are extremely overrated. So far as I've seen, only FANTASIA lives up to the term 'classic', but then again, I haven't seen them all. But even if I did, I'll always have a space in my list of favorites for 101 DALMATIANS. Not only do I find it one of the very best Disney films, it's also on of the very best talking animal fables ever to hit your theaters.One of the aspects of the film is its villain. With the exception the Evil Stepmother and Maleficent, DALMATIANS' Cruella DeVille (voiced by Betty Lou Gerson) is an outrageous and colorfully written villain, and yes, the mention of her name brings in wonderful memories. But, although Cruella is one of the finest aspects of the film, there are other pleasures to behold. Mainly, the clever portrayal of its talking animals. With clever voice acting but mostly due to much more clever writing, the animal characters here don't just talk for our fondness, they talk with precise and clever speeches. The animal characters are far more intelligent and colorful than its human counterparts, but I guess that's what they meant to do. In fact, sometimes throughout the film, I can almost see a sort of human personality among all of the animals, be it cats, dogs or the dalmatians, one and all.The animation has its flaws, and the energy level drops at a rather low point midway, but the film never failed to cheer me up. Colorful characters, beloved animation and no lack of energy help make this little Disney film a big delight. Now, if your still looking for an apology when I say 101 DALMATIANS is one of the best Disney movies ever, your probably better of not reading this review in the first place. I make no apologies about it, 101 DALMATIANS is terrific, if not flawless, entertainment. Bundle up the kids! Rating: ****1/2 out of 5.
Let's get the spoilers over with then! As most people will know, this movie is based on the book by Dodie Smith. And a lot of changes were made from the book, but I'll come to that later. Anyway, basically the story goes that a male dalmatian, Pongo, finds both himself and his 'pet', Roger, a wife/the equivalent in dog-world. Anyway, he spots Anita and her dalmatian, Perdita-and of course they both get the girl (or dog?). Perdita soon gives birth to fifteen puppies-but Anita's old friend, Cruella DeVil has her eye on their beautiful spotted coats, and hires two men to kidnap them. Pongo and Perdita then set out to find the puppies and save them from being made into a coat-but Cruella has also got her hands on other puppies too, making 99 in total. And the parents have to get all 99 back to London, while being chased by Cruella and her henchmen...To be honest, I adore the original book. And, as much as I do like this movie, it doesn't really compare. For example, in the book the mother of the puppies is Missus-Perdita is another dog found by Anita to help Missus feed all her puppies. When Pongo and Missus go to find their puppies, Perdita stays in London to comfort their 'pets'. The relationship between Pongo and Missus is the focus of the story (apart from the main plot) which is not really explored in this movie. And there were only 97 puppies, another dog (Captain?) who (if I recall correctly) is Perdita's long-lost love, is also adopted by the 'pets' at the end of the book, making 101.Of course, I'm not going to lower the rating of this movie just because it isn't faithful to the book. My 'problem' with this movie is that it doesn't feel like the other Disney classics. To put it bluntly, it feels rushed and, at times, forced.There are only three songs, unlike most other Disney movies, which I feel were only put in because it's a Disney tradition. In my opinion, this movie would have worked fine without any songs at all. I don't mind the songs really-they just feel like an afterthought in the context of the movie. 'Cruella DeVil' is very catchy, while the 'Kanine Krucnhies Jingle' and 'Dalmation Plantation' are easy to pass over and forget.The animation, as with most Disney classics, is excellent. I have no problems from that angle.The human characters didn't seem to have any real thought put into them, with the exception of the villains. Roger had some promise at the beginning (writing songs about romance hen he apparently had no experience, being so awkward with Anita, decidingly not liking Cruella from the start), but was quickly shoved into the background. with the exception of him standing up to Cruella over selling the puppies. Anita was just utterly bland (she meets Roger, gets married, then spends the rest of the movie whining about Cruella, the puppies and Perdita), Nanny was hardly on screen and when she was, it seemed as though we should sympathise with her (when Jasper and Horace break in, when she's crying about thinking she can hear the dogs barking)-but she had just appeared after Roger and Anita's wedding, with no introduction or anything. In my opinion, the relationships between the human characters should have been properly explored.Cruella DeVil steals the show easily. She comes across as being somewhat psychotic, and you immediately agree with Perdita-she is a threat to the dogs in the movie. The continuity with this character, at least, Way brilliant-she is over the top and eccentric, before (literally) going over the edge. Jasper and Horace provide a lot of the comic relief, but are also interesting-Horace appears to be more clever then he thinks, but Jasper (the self appointed brains of the duo) constantly puts him down for his thinking.As it's late at night, I think I shall now conclude my review of this movie. Although I did enjoy it, I did find that it was lacking-the relationships between characters were not fully explored and I was not particularly happy with many of the characters. But overall, although it does not stand up beside classics such as Snow White, Bambi or even The Lion King, 101 Dalmations is a very entertaining movie.7/10
101 Dalmatians is classic Disney in every sense of the word, giving each little puppy a characterisation and making us involved in the plight of Pongo and Perdita and their search for their stolen family.Cruella de Vil is evil personified, a smoke-breathing, wild-eyed monster looking for new ways to make fur coats. No animal is safe around her! Dodie Smith's book comes to life after a long journey in production and is well worth the effort. Despite most of the songs written for the film being junked before release, this film manages to enthral both children and adults alike, and is still better than the two live-action versions which were released in the 1990s.Funny, charming, beautifully animated ... and timeless.
OK, now we have a new 'platinum' (yeah...) 2-DVD edition of '101 Dalmatians'. This is a classic Disney film and one of their better efforts. Complaints about the animation style arise from failure to appreciate that it IS a style. It's wonderful for its clarity and lack of clutter and arises from a cartooning style popular during the late '50s and early '60s.It must be admitted that the 'good side' characters are a little bland, especially the parent dogs' owners. The Disney people should probably have employed some better voice talent for these people and given them a few interesting crochets  assuming this wouldn't be too great distortion of the original book.However, Cruella De Vil and her nincompoop sidekicks more than make up for this deficiency. In the 1996 live-action version, the brilliant Glenn Close is even nastier and funnier. However, Betty Lou Gerson, the voice actress here, gives her Cruella plenty of bite and venom. Also making up for so many pallid characters are the 'Cruella De Vil' song and Cruella's own number about pelts.On the whole, the film is a good romp. Young children may be apt to take Cruella's threat to the puppies seriously  although Cruella is painted in such broad strokes that a moderately intelligent 5-year-old will probably realize that she's all smoke and mirrors. Teen-agers and adults will relax and enjoy the fun without worrying.The extras included in this set are on occasion interesting, even meaty. They are some inducement to buy the new edition even if you have one of the old ones. Also an inducement is the restoration work on the film itself, which makes it look as fresh as it did in the theaters. Well, almost (see below).You may at this point wonder at my rating for this offering, since my verbiage seems to be working toward a tepid mid-range score. No such luck. This edition of 101 lies at the bottom of the barrel. I don't know why anyone would want to buy it, much less rent the thing. The reason is its disastrously mutilated visual aspect.The Disney people have had a vile and pernicious prejudice against widescreen aspects from the get-go. The only reason they even make widescreen films for theaters is that's what audiences expect. But they know there are a lot of Luddite fools out there who want films to 'fit' their oh-so-1960s little-screen TV sets. And this plays right into their hatred of the widescreen medium. Getting them to put out a DVD with a film showing its original dimensions sometimes amounts to pulling their teeth with rusty pliers. This latest travesty really takes the cake.'101 Dalmatians' was filmed at an aspect ratio of 1.78:1. Every single VHS and DVD edition of it that I know of has mutilated the original down to a disgusting 1.33:1  with a coy little note that it's been mutilated to 'fit your television screen'. WELL, IT DOESN'T FIT MINE. Welcome to the 21st Century, stupid stupid Disney people. Yes, people still buy antiquated little screens  save those pennies, guys! But half the programs on many channels are already in widescreen, and it doesn't fit YOUR screen, ha-ha-ha. It fits mine. Most widescreen films are produced on DVD only in widescreen, and it's about time.If Disney wants to wallow in the last Century, that's their business. However, I don't see why we should enable them by buying their old-fashioned, creakily antiquated products. Once they produce a widescreen DVD of 101, I'll buy it. Used  that way they don't get my money. Until then, I'll just keep my VHS tape. Yes, Disney, I can still be even more-antiquated-than-thou. As to this issue of the film: what a rip-off!
101 Dalmations is perhaps the Best Disney film ever made. The story, characters, animation, detail, colour and music was spot on. I mean who doesn't love this movie? Cruella De Vil is definitely one of the best Disney Villains of all time. She's wonderfully evil and cruel. Skinning puppies is quite a ruthless plan which can scare audiences. We can easily see that the animators have out a lot of work into this film. The voice talents were cast perfectly. Betty Lou Gerson nailed it as Cruella.101 Dalmations is a film which should be remembered and treasured forever.Thanks for reading.
I just got through watching the new 101 Dalmations DVD. I haven't seen this movie since I was a kid, watching it at the movie theater. It's a very cute movie but i'm confused about something. It wasn't what I remembered it to be. For some reason, I had pictured all these Dalmations inside a fire station. I could see all the red fire hats and all the dogs riding the fire engine. Obviously I must have this movie mixed up with something else. Does anybody out there remember the movie I'm describing? I could have sworn it was 101 Dalmations but there was nothing even remotely close to a fire station. What movie am I confusing this with?
'101 Dalmatians' is a great movie from Disney. I read the original book by Dodie Smith and its sequel, 'The Starlight Barking', I watched the animated series, watched the animated sequel '101 Dalmatians II: Patch's London Adventure', and watched the live-action films with Glenn Close as Cruella. The story of '101 Dalmatians' is Pongo and Perdita meet up in a park along with their owners, Roger and Anita, the two couples fall in love and eventually they get married. Later, Perdita is expecting puppies. The only person to hear of this is Anita's old schoolmate, Cruella De Vil. On a dark and stormy night, the puppies get born, totalling up to 15 Dalmatian puppies. Cruella shows up in time and wants to buy the puppies from them, but Roger turns her down. Cruella then vows to get even on them. When the puppies are older, Cruella hires two incompetent crooks, Horace and Jasper Baddun, to steal the puppies. They succeed in doing that. All the humans fail to find the puppies, but luck comes when Pongo gives out the 'Twilight Bark' to every dog in London for information on their missing puppies. It finally reaches the Colonel, a sheepdog, and his companion, Sergeant Tibbs, a cat. Pongo and Perdita then set off to find their children. Then, we learn that Cruella stole the 15 puppies, along with 84 others, with the motivation to turn them into fur coats. Now, Pongo and Perdita have to get the puppies to safety before it is too late. I love this film 100-percent. I'm waiting for the Platinum Edition DVD to come out. It comes out on March 3rd next year. My favourite characters are Pongo, Perdita and Cruella. I like Pongo and Perdita because this story is about them saving their children from death. And I like Cruella because, thanks to this film, she has become one of the most popular and also one of the most iconic villains of all time. And I am very interested in this story because it's all about good vs. evil as the pups try to outsmart Cruella. It's a real lovely film from Disney, and I'm giving it 10/10. And this is enough talk for me. I enjoyed it and I can't wait for the DVD to come out. Thank you.
For a while, I enjoyed this movie, but I didn't like the part where Patch was chewing on the carpet. I know that all puppies and dogs do that at certain times, but I didn't like the way his mother got slightly mad at him. I do like the rest of the movie though. I was wondering where Cruella got all those other dalmatian puppies. All those dalmatian puppies were just so adorable. Go ahead and watch this movie if you want, but I like the 101 Dalmatians II: Patch's London Adventure sequel better. At least in that film, Patch got to be the star and he wasn't as annoying. A dalmatian is the kind of dog I would prefer, but I already have a dog. Overall, this movie deserves an 8 out of 10 rating.
The 17th animated Disney classic is a less ambitious film comparing to earlier top Disney classics, but it is enjoyable enough anyway.'Sleeping Beauty' nearly bankrupted the Disney studio. Perhaps because of this and also because other extremely expensive Disney classics were initially a failure, the Disney studio needed to make cheaper animated films in a try to recover financial costs. This one is cheaper and more simple in everything: story, designs, sceneries/backgrounds, colors, picture quality, characters, etc...It certainly doesn't have 'that' magic and attention to detail which makes Disney so legendary, but it doesn't deserve to be judged too hardly. It isn't Disney at its worst, very far from that! The animation is great as usual on Disney and this one also has lots of fun, entertainment, danger, adventure, darkness, classic humor and even some touching and depressing moments. The happy ending is another sign that it follows the Disney tradition.Although the artwork is way cheaper-looking than in the most artistic Disney tales, is still in a good and acceptable level in many ways. It is basically the same artstyle we see in 'The Sword in the Stone' and 'The Jungle Book', for example. Simple and not extraordinary, but not as poor-looking as in 'Oliver & Company'. Just for the record, I consider 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' a better movie than 'Oliver & Company', 'The Jungle Book' and 'The Sword in the Stone'.However, there is one thing which the artwork of this movie is brilliant: a brief scene which we can see the sparkling stars at night, with an impressing resemblance to the fabulous artwork of the best Disney classic ever, 'Pinocchio'.The characters are very enjoyable in general. The most enjoyable are Roger, the Colonel, Sargent Tibs, Pongo, Perdita and those adorable 99 dalmatian puppies. All of the puppies are adorable.By the way, the first time I saw dalmatians was in this movie. I didn't know that dog breed before, but ever since then they became one of my favorite dog breeds. They're such cute spotty dogs! I love dalmatians since I was a kid.Returning to the conversation about the characters, Cruella DeVil isn't one of my favorite Disney villains and I personally don't consider her one of Disney's best villains, but she's one of the most eccentric and original. I like her red car, nevertheless. She's got a beautiful and fine automobile! Jasper and Horace are Cruella's sidekicks and they are funny in many moments. They are just as cruel and heartless as Cruella, but more comical. There are several hilarious moments with these two guys. It's so funny how the dalmatians (with the help of other animals) make their lives miserable, considering that they definitely deserve it. This only accents the comical effect.Pongo, Roger, the Colonel and Sargent Tibs are equally humorous characters. In fact, Sargent Tibs (the cat) has always been one of my favorite characters from this movie. He's funny, smart, clever, well-mannered and cool.This movie takes place in England. It takes us not only to London, but also to other places that must be not very far from London... or maybe they are. But wherever they are, those are all nice places, at least judging by the movie's perspective.About the soundtrack, it is generally great too. 'Cruella DeVil' is a delightful song (a perfect song for Cruella DeVil, describing her in perfection). 'Dalmatian Plantation' is a catchy one. 'Kanine Kruchies Jingle' is a lovely and cute song.'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' had a 'remake' in 1996, but as a live-action version. The live-action version/remake has amazing similarities to the animated version, being very faithful to it. Although the live-action version is okay, I rather the animated version with its simple and old-fashioned charm.Overall, a charming Disney classic which might not be their best, but deserves its attention too. It also features the voice talents of many well-known Disney artists.This should definitely be on Top 250.
Genre: Cartoon, dogs, adventure, based on Dodie Smith's book.What happens: So the film is about two Dalmatians meeting with each other. Their owners and the dogs fall in love with each other and the dogs give birth to 15 puppies! However, someone called Cruella DeVil has her eye on the pupsMy thoughts: This is a good film, but why did the Disney company have to make this? They could have just left the idea alone and based their next film on their imagination. However, no, they decided to make a film based on Dodie Smith's lovely book.I prefer the book to the film, as I have told you before. The film is good, but it would be much better if it had the following things added or changed: One: In the book, the mother of the pups was called Missis and Perdita was a liver Dalmatian Anita found on the road. I would like the film to have this. Two: The film has less of Pongo and Perdita and more of the pups. In the book, more than half of the story concentrates on the grown-ups. This change in the film annoys me a little. Three: In the book, Lucky is not a sickly puppy. Instead of Lucky being the sickly one, there's a sickly puppy called Cadpig and he isn't in the film!! Why couldn't the Disney company have included Cadpig!?I prefer the book, folks! I rate it 10 out of 10!
Although it falls flat at some points, 101 Dalmatians has always been a favourite of mine. Maybe it is the scratchy style of the artwork that does it, maybe the delightful personalities of the characters, or maybe the entertaining villains. Who knows? Based on the brilliant book by Dodie Smith, it's the familiar tale of the cute little dalmatian puppies escape across the wild and snowy countryside, in a desperate race against time.Full of imagination, humour, and just plain charm, this is a must see for all Disney fans. No, it's not Walt's most thought-provoking effort, but it's way better than what modern Disney can think of nowadays.
I liked this film mainly for its drawings. It was a departure from previous Disney animated films in that it had harder-edged drawings instead of the soft pastels. I found the detailed sketches of the building to be fascinating. I could actually watch this film with the sound off and just enjoy the artwork.I actually saw this movie AFTER the 1996 live-action version with Glenn Close so I was familiar with the story. The only deviation was that there were more animals involved in the rescue of the puppies in the latter version.The narration was very good in the beginning and film is okay, nothing super. It lags in a few parts, which is the only complaint I would have. It certainly is a nice story.
'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' is among my Mouse House's favorites.And Cruella is second only to Sleeping Beauty's Maleficent ,as far as the villains are concerned.Cruella's character is so vile that my wife gave that nickname to her wicked headmistress (who really looks the part)! Pongo,Perdita,their offspring and all the rest have a long way to go before tasting the quiet joys of home.Very good scene in the park when the two dogs fall in love and make their masters do the same.And during the long walk across the snow ,aren't they nice all these puppies? I did not like the remake (and its abominable follow-up) Cruella is a cartoon character and even a superior actress such Glenn Close was bound to fail.
It is hard to believe that this film is 46 years old now - it's better than most of the stuff we get nowadays. The animation is great for its time - people won't be poking fun at its quality - EVER. It is full of fun characters - the dogs themselves are actually an adorable bunch who you actually care about rather than a faceless mass that you just watch blankly without any real cares. The adventure is fun to follow along with, and even though the town of London seems a little unreal in this film, it's only the dogs we care about after all. But the best thing about this film is the villains. Cruella DeVil is one of animation's greatest villains - as testified to by her evil looking house and her nasty looking car. The two thick henchmen (I've forgotten their names) are amusing to watch when they're clumsily pursuing the dogs - there is nothing about this film that could have been done better. It manages to touch, amuse, captivate and make the audience care about it - it should be at least an 8.0 rating on IMDb. Although I guess some films just don't receive the credit they deserve, this film being one. And though I did have trouble trying to figure out if the film was set in the Victorian era or the 60s, it's still an amusing watch, and the dogs have such a good story to tell that you won't care anyway. 9/10
I have to admit, next to mythical, archetypal blockbusters like 'Bambi' and 'Snow White', 'Dalmations' comes off as a something of a lightweight. Seeing it for the first time in 30 years, I was startled by how much looser and rougher the animation was than my childhood memories; I was also somewhat disappointed to discover that only 4 or 5 of the legion of Dalmation puppies had any personality or even any speaking parts. And a few of the plot elements seem kind of 'squirelly' to my adult sensibilities - (the young couple can barely make ends meet but they have a live-in cook and maid? Roger makes it big with a song that opens him for the biggest no-contest defamation suit in the history of England?)But I don't really care. The movie won my adult heart all over again with its charm, its sense of intimacy, and a thousand little atmospheric touches, like the 'Twilight Bark' and the 'What's My Crime?' TV show and the way Cruella De Vil slammed her car down the lanes and around corners like a woman possessed. The directors and animators were obviously forced to take shortcuts and economy measures (due in part to the sheer number of puppies on the screen at some points) with both the artistic process and with the plot in order to meet the budgetary guidelines of the 'new era' of animation. Even so, you can tell they labored mightily to create a mood, an atmosphere, of a world seen from a canine point of view, even down to camera angles, sound design and character design. (Cruella, for instance is too physically ugly to actually exist, even as a cartoon character, unless you take Pongo's and Pertita's fear and loathing for her into account.)My conclusion: this may be a smaller, less lush and less epic Disney animation project, but it still reflects the utmost care and dedication of some very talented people, and it still holds up very well indeed to my grown up sensibilities. It was a great pleasure to see it again. 'Bambi' is still my all time reigning champ of animated movies, but 'Dalmations' in this context, could easily be thought of as Mickey Mantle to 'Bambi's' Babe Ruth. It's a classic whose likes we are not likely to see again.
A vile creep-ette kidnaps a bunch of little dogs and the parents go out to look for them. Yeah, we know. I liked it when 'The Simpsons' did a semi-spoof of 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians', with Mr. Burns trying to turn Santa's Little Helper's children into clothing.Speaking of the title, I should identify that the title is incorrect grammar. It should be 'One Hundred One', as 'One Hundred and One' means 100.1.Speaking of dalmatians, here's something that I learned from the movie 'State and Main': they were named after the island of Dalmatia, near Croatia, almost 2,000 years ago. The ancient Romans were also considering naming them after Sardinia. Had they gone with the latter, this movie would be called '101 Sardines'! Anyway, I just like poking fun at big, pompous Disney movies (my reviews of 'Snow White', 'Cinderella' and 'Sleeping Beauty' were even loonier). This movie is cute, but what else really?
It is perhaps ironic-or hardly-that 'One Hundred and One Dalamtians' was made during the year I was born. It certainly had a profound influence on my childhood. Almost 'living' in the cinema with other films, I don't think I saw repeated showings as much as this. I once went to a matinée of it with a friend and his family. I sneaked behind under a seat while it was still dark in the cinema to see it through again. Needless to say, when leaving, the family wondered where I'd got to. Such antics can only be attributed to one character, Cruella De Ville. Disney's talents, and those who were the voices, just oozed with the villains, (and esses). Eleanor Audley's voice is fantastic as the wicked Maleficent in the 'Sleeping Beauty,' but nothing quite matches the combined animated effects with the voice of Betty Lou Gerson. I guess it was this that held a peculiar obsession and fascination, and I suppose, addiction. I love the scenes which portray Cruella's crazed outbursts and demented frustrations. Her reaction when Roger refuses to sell the puppies: 'you wait, you'll be sorry. You fools! You idiots!' And her crazed frustration when finding Jasper and Horace haven't done the dirty work; grabbing the liquor from Jasper and flinging the bottle and its contents in the fire, and blasting the door shut after clenching her hands with, 'I'll...l'll call the police. DO YOU UNDERSTAND!!!'causing the plaster to crack, are some of the most memorable. 'You know, I think she means it Jasper.' Not to mention the crazy car chase at the end. The colonel's muddling, 'Puddles' and 'Pingo,' is always quite hilarious. Apart from the English diction in these voices which isn't emulated any more, the film will always be a timeless classic and first rate for any student learning British English. I couldn't agree more with the commentator who said that Cruella's character animation 'doesn't come better than this.'Disney was getting better and better.
in my mind there are only 2 versions of this movie, the good one (1961) and the bad one (1996 ? ) this is a great classic when I was a younger i would watch it and then rewind it, all day! it is great. the main characters are Pogo Perdita and their 15 pups which grows to 100 pups!and of course there is their humans, 'pets' according to Pogo, Anita and roger. there is a newer version that isn't animated, but it ruins the movie, b/c Pogo is supposed to be able to talk and the animals all work together to save the pups but when they use real dogs and humans it takes away part of the fiction, glamor, and fun of the movie. i grew up in the 90s and didn't realize until today that it was made in the 60s. its not made w/ 'todays' kind of animation meaning it is all done w/ a computer and tries to look like real life, in my opinion it is better than any new animated movie. also boys and girls alike enjoy this classic. there are some movie that you watched in your childhood and go back and watch them and think they are not that good, but no matter how old or young you are its a guarantee you will like this movie. its wholesome, speaks of family, loving, and taking care of each other and it has a few good songs, that are lots of fun to sing along to, and even when you haven't seen the movie in a while you will remember the words and hum the tune, a song you just cant forget.
One of Dodie Smith's friends once looked at the novelist's dalmatians and said: 'Those dogs would make a lovely fur coat!' It's this single phrase that inspired Mrs. Smith and led her to write what was about to become her most popular and influential novel: 'The Hundred and One Dalmatians'. I don't know who was this friend and what was he/she doing for living and what was his/her name. But whoever this person is, he/she inadvertently changed popular culture forever. This shows at which point the simplest sentences can become monumental.Smith's novel was adapted by none other than Mr. Americana himself, Walt Disney. '101 Dalmatians' was Disney's first work of the '60s, the last decade of his life, but it doesn't mean that old age slowed him anyway.It is Disney's 17th animated-feature film and 7th focusing on furry animal characters. It's the story of Pongo and Perdita, a dalmatian couple, whose puppies have been kidnapped by Cruella De Vil, one of the most cruel and diabolical characters portrayed by Disney and his crew. Cruella collected every dalmatian she could, so she would be able to make a fur coat from them. But Cruella didn't plan that Pongo, Perdita and a whole network of animal companions would unite their efforts in order to win back the puppies and get home safely.As previously said, Cruella is by far the most interesting character of the lot. We never know how Perdita's mistress Anita became friend with Cruella, but we guess that Cruella's not interested in Anita: she only wants the dalmatian. Cruella has a scary look. She looks like an old witch. She doesn't respect anyone and she's only interested in her desires. That's what makes Cruella one of the creepiest and most interesting villains of Disney's universe.But my predilection goes to the puppies themselves, which are absolutely adorable and charming. My favorite scenes are those where Pongo, Perdita and their 15 puppies watch a western on TV.We don't get to know each one of the 15 puppies, but some are highlighted. There's Patch, who is probably the group rebel, with his black spot on his eyes and his love for hard words; there's Rolly, whose favorite phrase is: 'I'm hungry' and there's Lucky who looks like the precursor of Generation X, because he always got the nose on the TV.The viewer is also introduced to the dogs' own communication system: the 'twilight bark', which looks like a large-scale Chinese whispers game. This is wildly imaginative and it's one of the most fascinating aspects of the dogs' own world.Outside of the dalmatians, my favorite animal characters are the 'military shed': a horse called Captain, a sheepdog called Colonel and, last but not least, Sgt. Tibbs, a courageous cat who is assigned to save the puppies from their countryside prison.Cruella is sided by two stupid and running-gag henchmen, Jasper and Horace. These two foolish guys provide most of the film's laughs and they're not too overshadowed by their horrible boss.Animation, even if it doesn't break any ground, is excellent, but not perfect. Victorian houses of London are well pictured, but it's not exceptional. It's the animals who are the best drawn. The dalmatians weren't easy to draw, because they don't have a uniform fur. Artists had to draw them white and then adding the black spots over and over, during 70 minutes of screen time. It must have been a monumental task.Every classical Disney aspect is here: drama (the main plot), comedy (Horace & Jasper and some secondary/tertiary events), fearsome elements (Cruella), suspense (Sgt. Tibbs' puppies rescue) and action (the climatic car chase). And let's not forget some potentially symbolic images, such as the dalmatians' long walk in the blizzard and the puppies watching TV.Also a thumbs-up for the music, and especially for the Cruella's title song. The soundtrack is mainly made from jazzy parts and it's very adequate.Another feature, another classic. Walt Disney never deceives us. After this film, we became more familiar with two elements, both from the title. First, the number 101, when heard, is almost instinctively associated with this movie, and so is the dalmatian dog itself. It's another success that both parents and children will like for generations to come.
It's more than 30 years later, and 'dalmations' are still the order of the day. The turn of the century brought us several sequels, both animated and live action, but none are as good as the original or even have the right 'feel.' Now, this film is not perfect, as the first half is pure gold, but it gets tedious beyond that. The animation is classic and fluid with nicely stylized dogs, even if it's a sketchy in places, and at times you can see the same puppy with the same spots running across the screen over and over. It's also a clashy film in that it has childlike themes (cute puppies, lots of slapstick with the barnyard animals) alongside mature themes (animal slaughter, marital relations, a truly evil villain), so it lacks a certain consistency. The first half is all wonderfully written and sure to please any adult or child: Pongo trying to find a mate for Roger, the cruelty of Cruella, the birth of the puppies, and especially the charming family scenes like when the dalmatians are watching TV. ('Why Patch, where did you ever hear such talk? Certainly not from your mother...') As long as Pongo and Perdita are around, the story stays nicely grounded, and it is lovely entertainment of a type we seldom see anymore. This isn't the modern 'Joke Every 2 Minutes' animated film; it's pure storytelling with all sorts of clever detail that never gets old. But then we get to the antics of the animals in the barn, the madcap car chases and the constant scenes of puppies running away, and it loses most of its appeal. Scattered in there are a few good moments (like when the puppies are slipping on the ice), but it's mostly downhill because that adult feel from the beginning is gone. I give this a 6/10 because it's great fun up until the puppies are kidnapped. The design of the dogs is so cute, as is the way they interact and fall in love without being 'too human.' It's also good to see a villain with some grit; this is from a time when family entertainment was much broader and could appeal to anyone, unlike the dumbed-down fare of today. Overall, a must see just for the experience, but subsequent viewings need only the first half.
Yes, the dog movies continue in 1961 with 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians,' an animated movie about a person in England who had a whole lot of dalmatians!!!!! Suddenly, the evil Cruella De Vil wants those puppies; she wants to make a coat out of them! Can the puppies stop her? Can these 101 puppies be saved just in time????? Find out when you watch this excellent movie!What I like about this movie: That it's excellent! I've seen this on video as a little kid, had the tape and book story, and watched this on ABC a few years back. It is a good story with great action and it has puppies and dogs!!!!!Give '101 Dalamatians' 10 stars...no, no - 101 stars! That shows you that it's excellent in many ways!!!!!10/10
I was eight when my schoolteacher showed this to the class. Now, I am born in the late 80s and so this will give you an idea when I first saw this animated feature.Definitely it brought back so many memories for me. It was really sweet seeing all those dalmatians. I don't know maybe how many times I almost squealed when watching at that time. And even thinking at that time how many will be able to squeeze into my house... The drama was there as I was watching and I remembered at that time I had never like Cruella one bit.Overall, one of the best animated features I had ever seen.
101 Dalmatians is my favorite Disney movie for many reasons.First it's got the mean Cruella DeVil and her henchman Horace and Jasper.Second , it has the two heroic dogs Pongo and Perdita. When Cruella steals their puppies it's to Pongo and Perdita to get them back before she turns them into fur coats.When they arrive to get them it turns out she has 101 of them there. So now , Pongo and Perdita must get all 101 dalmatians out of there before they become fur coats.This movie is filled with suspense , humor , and action.It also has some good songs including 'Cruella DeVil' and 'Dalmatian Plantation' I'm sure you will find it to be a great movie you'll want to watch over and over again. A perfect 10/10 .
ONE HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIONS (ANIMATED) **** Disney studios intended to give this movie a more softer, toned-down look that may be visually refreshing to you. When an evil menace, Cruella DeVil (voiced to perfection by Betty Lou Gerson), takes their puppies to make fur coats out of them, the two Dalmation parents set out in search for them. But when they rescue their little children, they save a whole other set of puppies of the same breed from being slain, totaling 101 dogs for their homeowners to look after!Rating System ***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad
This is a great movie, and I think we should applaud Disney for their efforts.Few movies have been made that are better than this one. I actually haven't seen it more months, but it's a great movie.Creulella De Vil is an evil old lady who wants some puppies to make them into fur coats. In the middle of one night, the puppies are stolen by De Vil's two assistants: Horrace and Jasper. Both men are stupid, but they'll do anything to get cash.With the help of St. Tibs, a cat, and a Colonel, a dog, the parents of the fifteen puppies, Pongo and Perdita find the puppies, and they find their way home, being chased by Cruella and the two men.This is a great film, and I recommend it for all ages.My Score: 8/10.
In a small town in London, music composer Roger lives with his pet dalmatian Pongo. They later meet Anita and her dalmatian Perdita. Roger and Anita fall in love and eventually get married. They later discover that Perdita is to give birth to 15 puppies. This is good news to Anita's school-mate Cruella DeVil, who wants to make them into a fur coat. When the puppies are stolen by Cruella's henchmen, Pongo and Perdita must set off on a journey to rescue the puppies before it is too late.This is a smart and entertaining film based on the excellent children's novel by Dodie Smith. When first released in 1961, it was a huge box-office success. And today, 45 years after it was released, it still entertains audiences. The characters make the film likable, from Pongo, Perdita and the puppies to the flamboyant Cruella DeVil. Listen for excellent performances from the voice cast, with Rod Taylor playing Pongo, Betty Lou Gerson playing Cruella, and many more. Even though there are not a lot of songs, they are still entertaining, such as 'Cruella DeVil' from 'Dalmatian Plantation'. Overall, this is a must-see for Disney buffs, or animation buffs.Recommended. 10/10
ONE HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIANS, in my opinion, is a pure Disney classic. It made me feel all warm and tingly when Pongo (voice of Rod Taylor) and Perdita (voice of Cate Bauer) set out on their mission. If you ask me, Cruella (voice of Betty Lou Gerson), Horace (voice of Frederick Worlock), and Jasper (voice of J. Pat O'Malley) were truly devious. If I were Pongo or Perdita, I'd probably do the same thing they did. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was perfectly cast, the direction was flawless, and Disney has done it again. In conclusion, I highly recommend this pure Disney classic to everyone who hasn't seen it. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it.
One of the most lovely films of all,1001 dalmatians is one of the classics from Disney that all people should watch. I was surprised to know that it was made in 1961,because I watched it for the first time in 1993 (I was 7) and it looked a modern cartoon for me,such as Lion King.Pongo and Perdita (a couple of dalmatians) and their owners Roger and Anita, are living happily and peacefully in their new home,until Perdita give birth to some puppies: Cruela,the evil friend of Anita, wants to do a new coat,using the little dalmatian's fur. She kidnaps them,and now Perdita and Pongo needs to save their puppies,before being too late.
One Hundred and One Dalmatians is another one of Disney's great cartoon dog stories, complete with an evil villain. Although it is a cute story, I felt that a lot of the middle of the film went a little bit slow and took away from the plot, hence my average rating. However, it's still a classic! Children and dog fanciers will enjoy this film, but it is probably one of those that the average adult would maintain an interest in, unlike Disney's other dog tale, Lady and the Tramp. However, despite the slowness of the plot and the dullness of some of the characters, I would recommend this to children and dog fanciers...and for those of us who share a nostalgic value from watching this film during one of its re-releases when younger.
I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities. The animation in My opinion was crisp, clean, and really clear. Not to mention beautiful! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love. in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen. In fact, The things that goes on in this series' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today!
When I was young I used to love this cartoon, a lot more than the live action version with Glenn Close (although that was good too). Two lonely bachelors lived in London, a dog and a man. The dalmatian dog, Pongo, is the centre of attention. One day they both meet girlfriends and get married. Later the female dog, Perdita, has fifteen dalmatian puppies. A horrible woman named Cruella De Vil has terrorised the family and now kidnapped the puppies, with the help of Horace and Jasper, to make a puppy coat for her fur collection. A very good Walt Disney Pictures animated cartoon with some action, some laughs, and some cute puppies. I didn't actually know that Rod Taylor from The Birds did the voice of Pongo! It won the BAFTA Film Award for Best Animated Film. Cruella De Vil was number 39 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, the film was number 66 on The Ultimate Film, and it was number 38 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Outstanding!
I'm a huge fan of the series of Disney's animated films. I remember I saw 101 Dalmatians when I was very little and I watched it with my father again and again and he loved it a lot. I was just never really that much into it. I love the original story by Dodie Smith, but the film just lacks something essential. It contains a lot of happy childhood memories for me but I haven't yet figured out the missing piece.The story is familiar to most of us. When Anita and Roger get married, they both have a dalmatian. Anita has Perdita and Roger has Pongo. Soon Perdita starts expecting puppies. Anita's old friend Cruella De Vil pops in and wants to buy the pups to make a fur coat for herself, but fails. She then hires two dumb criminals to do the job for her, but the dogs are smarter than she thought.101 Dalmatians is a real classic but the missing feel's just always there. The best thing in the film are probably the dumb criminals, who are mostly responsible for the funny scenes in the film.
I didn't come into this movie excepting much, and you shouldn't either. To start , the animation is easily some of Disneys poorest; even the newest of technology's can't save it. The characters have common goals and are not unique. This would be fine, however nothing about these characters is even slightly memorable and the next day you will not remember these characters. The film seems very episodic and unconnected as well. One of the only upsides to this film is the character Archimedes, who presents some laughs for people of any age. Some of the scenes with the wolf in it are bearable. Overall, this film is a easy pass in the Disney catalog, unless you are a completest.
So cute and naive... Probably all adulterated from the original book, but so what, Disney's poetic license to make cute movies allows for this parsimony, focused more on pets and Merlin's magic than anything else, just cute...
It's alright. In my opinion that fat squirrel saved the movie by being the funniest scene in it when she was hitting on squirrel Merlin. Other than that it's cute and fun enough, but nothing special.
Perhaps the most frivolous and largely forgettable Disney movie. The best part is the battle between Merlin and Madam Mim in which they take turns transforming into various beasts. It's quite reminiscent of King's Quest V.The animation has the messy look of the era when cheaper methods were employed. But the drawings themselves and movement are generally fine. The bigger problem is that so much of the movie is uninteresting and leads nowhere. It's kind of episodic with Arthur and Merlin turning into fish and squirrels (for no clear reason) and getting into trouble. Arthur pulling the sword out of the stone is almost an after thought which happens in the last few minutes with no build up and no consequences (other than Arthur becoming king just as the movie ends).As I said, Madam Mim is one of the better, more interesting characters being crazy, malevolent and engaging Merlin in a magical duel. Other than that, a few parts are hilarious. A wolf chasing Merlin and Arthur and nearly dying from exhaustion as he mounts a hill only to find they went the wrong way and are now going back. A sugar cup endlessly pouring sugar into a teacup waiting to be told to stop, joyfully bobbing up and down. I can't remember much else that was very funny. Merlin's beard getting caught on his wand and then going everywhere was funny.The rest of the movie, and there's a lot of random stuff, is not Disney's high point. The designs are not very interesting. Nothing's all that funny or meaningful. For instance, Arthur getting in trouble for using magic to clean dishes - I don't see the problem. The songs are also mediocre although I think they were done by the Sherman brothers who did the wonderful Mary Poppins the very next year. Maybe they were less inspired or had less time.
A classic, but forgotten Disney film from 1963, 'The Sword In The Stone' is about a young boy named Arthur (nicknamed Wart) who is trained by the wizard Merlin for better things (probably to be king) . Great animation + Great performances + Great story = Great movie. :)
The story is boring and has horrendous pacing. The 'exciting' parts are slow and dull and the finale is beyond bull. The animation is okay though.
The Sword In The Stone is a terrible movie, that take a great story, and twists it. The acting isn't makes it worse. This movie did only one thing right, and that makes it 1 star not zero. The animation was the only good thing about this movie.The Sword In The Stone has only one thing it does right, animation. Hand-drawn animation is amazing, and this movie was made when hand drawn was still being made. Too bad, nothing else is good. The animation was the only reason it wasn't no stars.The Sword In The Stone is, in my opinion, the worst disney movie. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. Young kids would find it borring. Adults would find it stupid. Also, I didn't mention this, but there is no story.
This film was one of my favourites as a child. The animation flows smoothly, the gags are non-stop and the characters are very memorable. The sequences are all quite stunning like the underwater chase and the final battle.
Decent watch, probably won't watch again, and can't recommend.Now it's been a while since I've seen this one, and now I remember why. There just isn't anything in the well in which to return. Sure all the magic is amusing, and the animal adventures are cute, as well as a nice reminder of how good we have it as humans, but I really feel like we ruined that squirrel's life, and I'm sad about it.The actual story of the sword in the stone is very short, because it's not interesting: it's all the adventures that Arthur has growing the kingdom, establishing rule over (what would be) England, and his adventures as an adult king (most of which were his knights') to include warring with neighbors.While the jocks versus nerds analogy through the movie is interesting, it feels polarizing, and the message of education / knowledge is mixed throughout the movie. Future references to the (1963) present just dates the movie and aren't all that funny, and it tells the audience that just because you have knowledge, doesn't mean you can use it. Then in the 3rd act, we start a controversy over having knowledge / skills can be used to better or worsen things, and other than inspiring Star Wars, I don't know what the point of it was.My favorite part was when Archimedes got to laugh: he seemed like he really needed it.
Such an up-and-down film, in terms of quality.I've personally always found 'The Sword in the Stone' uninteresting. The premise is very light, there's barely enough to support the run time - shown by the fact that just (roughly) 5-10 minutes of the film are about its title, the rest is build-up/filler with repeated gags and repetitive story beats.That's not to say the film doesn't have positives, it does. I enjoy the humour, the idea of teaching Arthur and Merlin himself. However, that's all hampered by the aforementioned issues.I think the plot needs more to it, perhaps Merlin could hide his magic more from Arthur though still teach him whilst they travel cross-country to the sword - as opposed to staying in one location for the vast majority of the production. I assume it's sticking to the source material.Karl Swenson is good as Merlin, pretty much the only great performance here; though Martha Wentworth as Madam Mim is quite amusing.I thought about giving this a lower rating, but I think there is enough there for it not to be deemed a poor film - I just see the greater potential for this story, hopefully the future live-action will realise it.
This movie is little good. Is Nice but not very good
A simple movie. Without graphic beautiful. I don't like this
Shooting and animations old-fashioned but very original in the story.
All in all interesting, pleasant and fun representation.
This movie hasnt really aged that well. with that i mean its ideals. animation is fine , but the story seems a little barren. still, its innocent enough.4/10: better not
I consider this a Disney classic. But then again all full length feature animated films while Walt was alive were classics. Of course the reason for that is because of the high standards he set for his animation department.
This movie of course is the Disnified version of King Arthur as a boy. Merlin is the real star. I must admit I am a fan of all things Camelot so my rating is biased. This film as measured against Disney animated films made before this one places it in the lower half.
Don Bluths influence can be seen in this film. 20 years later he would make a video game called Dragon's Lair (and apparently a feature length film based on this game is going to be released) and that video game has a style you can see in The Sword and The Stone.
I gave it a high rating because I feel 7.2 is too low.
A very good and underrated movie and I love it! It is both funny and pleasant to watch and I wish more people would watch it
Very good movie
This Disney film tells the tale of Arthur, a somewhat weedy boy usually referred to as Wart. He is training to become squire to his foster brother when he causes an arrow to be lost; he enters a forest to retrieve it and comes across Merlin the wizard. Merlin determines to educate the lad so returns with him to the castle. As part of his education he transforms him into various animals; a fish, a squirrel and a small bird. Each of these brings different challenges... a menacing pike; an amorous girl squirrel; and a hawk... not to mention the Mad Madam Mim; a witch with powers that rival Merlin's. Finally he accompanies his brother to London where there is to be a contest to find England's new king.This is an enjoyable animation from Walt Disney; the story may be fairly weak but there are plenty of fun episodes which should appeal to the young and young at heart alike. Apart from a brief mention of the sword in the stone at the start it is just about forgotten about till the film's closing minutes. Instead most of the film is taken up by the animal antics... these are cute and provide both child friendly thrills and laughs. Wart and Merlin, along with Archimedes, Merlin's talking pet owl make good central characters and Mad Madam Mim was a great laugh even though she is only in for a scene or two. As one would expect the animation is great and impressively detailed. Overall this might not be among the very best of Disney's animated films but it is still a lot of fun and well worth watching.
The Sword In The Stone is such a wonderful movie!!! A great cast along with a wonderful storyline!!! It has laughter throughout the entire movie, love, thrilling moments and a wonderful outcome for the film.
This is a different kind of Arthur film, one that doesn't focus on his great deeds as a king, but one that focuses on him as a child, when he was not yet king, but a poor boy, nicknamed Wart, with aspirations of being a squire. The situation we find our protagonist in at the beginning is much the same as the situation at the beginning of Cinderella's story: an orphaned child, taken in by someone (in this case, Sir Ector mentions that he is the boy's foster father) who doesn't really appreciate him or her for what the orphan can hope to become. Wart is forced to do chores and clean up after his older foster brother, Sir Kay. Wart doesn't complain or throw fits because of his chores; he does them diligently and he's generally pretty well behaved. But when he meets Merlin, the wizard begins to fill Wart's head with notions of what he might become. This is the story of Arthur learning the basics of what it would take to be king.
This film is a classic, and I'm not going to be one to tell you any differently. It still holds up today, fifty-five years after its release, and it's certainly more entertaining than Reitherman's 'Robin Hood'. Kids today should see this film; it's full of wondrous adventures, but it still teaches them important lessons that resonate even half a century later. It is, in that sense, truly timeless.
While this movie has very little to do with the sword in the stone until the end, I still thoroughly enjoyed it the whole way through. The characters are charming (especially Merlin, a batty, eccentric but wise mentor towards Arthur), the plot is enjoyable and I love how there was no major 'quest' in this movie but rather a series of whimsical and important lessons taught to Arthur mostly from animal transformations. The artwork and animation in this movie is fantastically fluid, considering when this film was made. I found myself laughing at times, and crying in others, because while their is an amazing amount of fun and witty humour in the film, there are also scenes that have you feeling for the characters, which is something that not a lot of movies are able to balance out these days. Overall, this film was simply beautiful to look at, and easily enjoyable to watch. Every scene is a gem, and I truly believe it was a film that had definitely been ahead of it's time. 9.5/10
When I was younger, this was one of my first exposures to the King Arthur story. I hadn't read any of the mythology books nor had I seen Monty Python and the Holy Grail. I later learned that the movie was based on a TH White fantasy novel entitled Once and Future King. I read that aforementioned novel a decade or two ago, but I don't remember a lot, but what I do remember is this very Disney movie.Some funny moments and interactions with magic are the high points of this film, plus the animals, especially the owl, contribute to a sweet story. The medieval European setting was good too, and I'd always wondered about that period of history. Maybe it's not entirely accurate here, but it doesn't matter because this is a movie, not a documentary.If you're into the King Arthur story, have kids who'd like to learn about it, or if you're bored by the latest films featuring the legendary British king and haven't seen this, what's holding you back? Look it up and you'll be surprised.
'The Sword in the Stone'... can anybody forget the cute little girl squirrel, that was left by Wart, desperately crying and with a broken heart? And Merlin's closing words about love: 'Well, yes, in its own way... yes, I'd say it's the most powerful force on Earth'!
7 of 10 stars for 'The Sword in the Stone'! It is not the best of all Disney films, but quite better and deeper than the most of the modern CGI movies!
This film may possibly one of Disney's less impressive movies. Nothing about it interested me. Merlin is possibly the only character I lime and has an interesting design and the best animation comes from him. But thats it. This film is very boring to me. It only had one funny joke and there was one scene with a squirrel thar I found cute. But apart deom that, this is just a bland bore. Fortunately, the Walt Disney Animation Studio learned from their mistakes and much better films in the years and decades that followed.
Although it has a somewhat basic story and it departs a lot from the original tale, I even liked it. I did not think this was one of the best Disney movies (it's far from it), but it's one of the best classics that everyone should see at least once in their lives. This film was part of my childhood and should be part of everyone's. Highly recommend.
One of those Disney minor classics that came out around the 60s, 70s, 80s. Overall it is slightly below average. Sometimes the animation looks top notch and at other times not as much. But given the fact this feature film is south of an hour and fifteen minutes; you're safe watching it before it starts getting boring.
I say at times, because in my honest opinion, The Sword in the Stone is one of those movies I'm torn about. Merlin and Archimedes are the are the most memorable characters in it. Mad Maddam Mim, too, but she is only in it for a short time. You can definitely see that this movie is from the beginning of the time when Disney started using the xeroxing process to directly transfer their drawings to the cels without much clean-up on the lines creating a sketchy look. That's not a turn-off, cause Robin Hood is one of my favourite Disney movies, but sometimes it is distracting. The light-hearted tone of the movie is really enjoyable, I must admit. We're not put through a lot of peril until the climactic battle between Merlin and Mim, which is the absolute highlight of it. One of the most entertaining climaxes in any Disney movie, hands down. What brings it down as a movie is that it really is the most fragmented in the Disney canon. Every lesson Merlin teaches Ward could without noticing be shown on its own as an educational short. And it feels kind of aimless too. Personally, I couldn't tell what difference there was to Ward after his lessons, he just pulled a sword out of a stone and he is the king. All of this for so little. It just doesn't work as a movie if you ask me. But agian, The Sword in the Stone is a lot of fun and has some great scenes which really show the talented Nine Old Men. Go watch it and judge for yourself.
This is just a load of charming entertainment for young kids. There are few low points in this movie. The animation is great. The story is entertaining. I would highly recommend watching this movie.
By the 1960's, the animation industry had sharply declined due to increased production costs and changing technology. Walt had become less involved with animation when he started Disneyland and television. THE SWORD IN THE STONE, released in 1963, has never been held in high regard by Disney fans, but has never been disliked either.I've always found THE SWORD IN THE STONE to be an anomaly in the Disney canon, because it was released between two features with strong and engaging storytelling and the fact that one of Disney's best storymen, Bill Peet handled it single handedly. Yet the story feels underwhelming as there isn't very much action nor is there conflict with a build up to the climax. Another issue is the heavy amount of reused animation, most of it from the film itself; Several animation cycles are repeated throughout the film. This also cheapens the artistic value of an already insipid film. Director Wolfgang Reitherman was known for doing this as a director and was criticized by his colleagues and fans for this. The stylized designs that worked so effectively in 101 DALMATIANS don't really lend itself to a medieval setting nor does the jazzy musical score. One key element to a great Disney picture is great characters and they're here. Merlin and Archimedes are cantankerous and funny. Sir Ector and Sir Kay are obnoxious antagonists (though not true villains), but are also funny as well. When you really think about it, Arthur's situation with Ector and Kay is basically the same as in CINDERELLA.The storyline is mostly Merlin attempting to educate a young Arthur by transforming him into various animals. Despite the shortcomings of telling an engaging story, the viewer does come away with an appreciation for education and philosophy. It can be argued that despite Merlin's (short sighted) ability to see into the future, his attempts to educate Arthur nearly prevent him from being anointed king, which is something Merlin had no foresight on.Although not one of the Disney greats, this should belong in the library of any true Disney connoisseur.
This is a decent presentation of the early chapters of 'The Once and Future King.' In it, we have the scrawny Arthur, making his way through life with little hope. Of course, the title comes from the legend that a sword had been put into a stone and the kingdom will be given to the one who can remove it. Naturally, all the knights with their broad torsos take a crack at it, to no avail. One day, Arthur accidentally comes across the titled sword, reaches over, grabs it, and pulls it out like it was stuck in a lump of butter. This brings about a great uproar and a need to grow up quickly. He has some sidekicks and there are some lightweight events that happen. It's fun and wacky and follows the legend....somewhat.
Disney films are almost always great, especially the animated classics. Sadly, The Sword in the Stone is one that doesn't really hold up whatsoever. With an overabundance of goofy humor, no antagonist, little plot movement, and an ending that comes out of nowhere, The Sword in the Stone is a disappointing take on Arthurian Legend. At this point, pretty much everyone knows the basic story of King Arthur, so I guess the film ignoring most of what makes the legend popular is a bold move, but it isn't one that the film benefits from. I understand that this film deals with a young Arthur, or better known as Wart, but I'm not a fan of watching an 80-minute adventure that has little to do with anything involving King Arthur. The worst part is, the title only applies to the last 10 minutes, with the rest of the movie failing to set-up any potential payoff the ending could have. If this film wasn't titled The Sword in the Stone and didn't share some of the names of famous people, I think I could have enjoyed it a little more. Merlin and Wart go through several entertaining adventures involving many different animals and obstacles that I'm sure would be fun if it weren't supposed to live up to the legend of King Arthur. With that said, there is basically no plot at all. Merlin comes across a scrawny and clumsy boy named Wart and he just assumes that he is destined for greatness, but there's never any real movement on that besides a few training sessions. Training sessions for what you ask? It's never made clear. As I said before, if it weren't for the title this could be viewed as a halfway decent animated adventure, but the film hardly does anything to live up to the name.4.7/10
My favorite version of the legend about a boy destined to be king and meets a man who changes his life forever when he pulls out the sword.It covers his home life as an orphan, his training with Merlin and being crowned. The humor is situation comedy from turning the boy into a fish and nearly getting eaten by sharks or a wild following them keeps getting hurt three stogies style. Archimedes (an owl with a mind of his own) is witty, clever and has courage when it counts for his friends.What makes this a classic is the subtle hints to come with a squirm taking interest in Wart (King Arthur) and he breaks her heart like he will Gweniver someday or when Merlin says Tahiti will be a popular tourist destination in the future.The songs are catchy times that stay in your head for days like this is what makes the world go round and the sword in the stone.The medieval setting seems a little inaccurate since London won't be found for another thousand years or in door plumbing for that matter. The art drawings weren't the best during the crowd scenes and forest scenery like other Disney classics. Its very noticeable at how laughably bad it can get.Still I find the plot, characters and music over comes the flaws.
As the final completely animated movie produced before the death of Walt E. Disney himself, this was a truly grand conclusion to the Golden Age of Disney's animated films. The humor works, the charm is captivating, and the duel between Merlin and Mim is made in a way that despite how it doesn't have the serious action, it can constantly entertain with the different animals they transform into, in a cartoony manner. I also didn't notice errors in the narrative like several more official critics did, and even if I did notice, the humor would make up for it. I did take unfavorable notice of Merlin's ability of foresight, as they snuck some 1963-era references into a film set in the 5th century (this is around the time Arthur was crowned King of Britain), including the historical spoiler that King Arthur's experience would be made into books and movies. Give it a watch and see for yourself that this film is under-appreciated and overlooked.
The Sword in the Stone is one of the scratchiest Disney movies. At the time they were still experimenting with and getting to know the Xerox system, allowing them to produce animation with a smaller budget, but with a noticeably rougher outlines and simpler character models. And it shows. The Sword in the Stone is one of the worst looking Disney films, there's really no way around it. But, it makes up for that, at least partially, with some catchy tunes from the Sherman Brothers, and with fun, memorable characters.The story is basically that from T. H. Stone's novel of the same name. Merlin is a wizard who ages backwards in time - it's complicated - and he's the one who mentors Arthur Pendragon in his early days as a page in a distant, rural castle in the English countryside. That mentoring mostly consisting of him changing Arthur into various animals and watching as he almost gets eaten. Happy fun times for the whole family.In all seriousness though, Merlin is a great character. Good lines, classic character design, the best song in the whole film and his various hijinks with Arthur's life do keep us entertained throughout the whole film.What keeps this from being a greater Disney film is that the story itself doesn't really contain all that much and that the side characters are not that interesting. In the book we have knights, creatures of the forest, Robin Hood of all things, villagers, castle folk. None of which we see in this film. It's just Merlin, non-speaking animals and Arthur most of the time. It's kind of fun, but the book had potential for so much more. Imagine if they did King Arthur during the 90s, in the middle of Disney Renaissance. That would have been amazing. Just think about it.In the end The Sword in the Stone is a perfectly good children's film with a more relaxed tone than was typical for a Disney film at the time. It's not bad, but it's unfortunately not great either.
This is an animated film from the Walt Disney era, one about young Arthur, who aspires to be a knight's squire. However, a powerful but forgetful wizard named Merlin has plans for Arthur to be something beyond a squire.This movie actually starts off with a captivating intro where England is left without a king, and a proclamation has been sent that the one who can pull the sword out of the stone will be made king. It then leads to imaginative and quirky scenes where Merlin demonstrates his magical powers to Arthur while, at the same time, try to get him an education so he could get to places beyond that of being a squire.This film really does not have much of a plot, as most of the movie is about Merlin showing Arthur his magic spells (I thought the squirrel scene took up too much time). However, it's great imaginative fun for the little kids and, probably to the adults' liking, you can get a couple of important messages from the film like getting an education and how complicated love can get.The animation was pretty good, not as vibrant as earlier films or in later films of the 80s and 90s, but it is serviceable. The songs by the Sherman Brothers weren't my favorite to listen to, but they're quite fun and easy to sing along with (again, something good for the kids). Wolfgang Reitherman did a nice job directing, as the characters were memorable and have a nice dose of humor, and his sons, Richard and Robert, did a nice job in voicing Arthur - innocent and carefree, but grounded. Rickie Sorensen also voiced Arthur and also did an equally good job.Overall, it's not one of the best Disney movies I've seen but it does have a certain charm to it that definitely acquires that special 'Disney touch.' Perhaps that is what separates the more classic Disney movies from the more recent ones - the classics, and some of the ones filmed later in the 1980s and 1990s, have a more whimsical and charming element, while the more recent ones have a more hip and modern Hollywood influence. I myself prefer a Disney film with a more classic feel.Grade B-
'The Sword in the Stone' is a film that most children will enjoy. However, if you were to ask 100 random kids what their favorite Disney cartoons were, I would probably have a heart attack if even a single kid said 'The Sword in the Stone'. It's enjoyable enough to watch--but also lacks anything endearing that would make it truly memorable. While there's really nothing to hate about the film, there really isn't a lot that stands out either. The animation is 1960s style Disney-- which means a rougher style due to cost-cutting measures. Instead of huge armies of animators, many were fired and the use of Xerox machine was introduced. It saved money but also gave the films a slightly rougher look. The music is also enjoyable but nothing in it is memorable. And as for the story, it's nice...and nice is a term you don't use with a film that is a classic. Overall, worth seeing but nothing more.
The king has died and no one can agree on the right king for England. A miraculous sword appear in London stuck in an anvil and stone. It comes with an inscription proclaiming the man who pulls the sword will be the new king. Many try but nobody succeeds. The Sword in the Stone becomes forgotten as the land fall into a dark age. Merlin the wizard has plans for the young orphan Arthur.The animation is classic hand-drawn style. It has an old-style charm that is reminiscent of TV cartoons of that era. It's educational at times. It's pretty light weight humor. The story is pretty thin. It doesn't put in enough time for a compelling villain. It also suffer for not having a beautiful princess or an interesting lead. Arthur is too flimsy to be a compelling child character. Merlin and Archimedes are really the only fascinating characters. It's also missing any great songs. The best part of the movie is the transformational battle between Merlin and Mim.
This is one of Disney's best magical movies. If you love the Arthurian Legend and any of the other Disney film animations then The Sword in the Stone you should enjoy. It is a very comical twist on the tale of Arthur, the boy to become King, with some memorable magical moments by Merlin the Magician.If you like films like: 'First Knight', 'Excalibur', or 'Camelot' then you may find The Sword in the Stone appealing.If you like magical Disney films like 'The Black Cauldron', 'Fantasia', 'Cinderella' or even 'Pete's Dragon' then you might like The Sword in the Stone.9/10
In medieval times, Merlin the Magician tutors a 12-year-old boy through educational magic; the lad, nicknamed Wart, is the future King of England, King Arthur, though what he learns from being temporarily transformed into a fish, a squirrel, et al. isn't made clear. Animated adventures from Walt Disney is heavy on both the slapstick and the talk--the former a handicap because of a lack of visual wit, the latter a detriment because the characters aren't very interesting. The picture has nice color, and a funny supporting performance from Junius Matthews as Archimedes the owl, but the main set-piece (a showdown of magic between Merlin and his nemesis, Madam Mim) is just a flurry of activity, magic without boundaries for easy laughers. The intermittent songs, by Richard M. and Robert B. Sherman, are weak (and unsingable) and the character of Wart, hindered by poor vocal work, fails to emerge. ** from ****
This is a underrated animated Disney film, that I can get why it might be underrated. But I personally think it deserved a bit more recognition for it's worth. The story is about the building up of Arthur by getting trained by Merlin to take the crown and become King Arthur. And most of the training parts are actually fun to watch. My personal favorite was when they transform into squirrels and gets hit on by the female squirrels. The animation in this sort of reminded me of the animation for Winnie the Pooh. This isn't topnotch when it comes to the animation compared to other Disney films, but it gets the job done.7.8/10
Tired of living in a Medieval mess... Merlin uses all his magic powers to change a scrawny little boy into a legendary hero! When you think of strong Disney films, this may not immediately come to mind, but it should. While people tend to either think of the classics (Snow White, Sleeping Beauty, Bambi) or the early 90s revival (Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin), this is every bit as good with an entertaining story and lots of fun, with good animation, too.The most memorable part is with Madam Mim, and it is not surprising that Disney has used her in other cartoons, and even put her in their 'Kingdom Hearts' video game. She is a great villain, especially given that she is most kooky than evil.The moral of the story is somewhat obscure. Early on, we are lead to believe that the importance of education would play a big role in Arthur's success. Merlin makes education out to be the most important thing. But as the film progresses, we see more time is spent turning into different animals (fish, bird, squirrel) than actually learning.Apparently this is one of the few Disney films of its era without a sequel or platinum DVD. Why? If there is someway to put together a handful of special features, this ought to be seen by more people and respected as a historic treasure.
This is a really good movie, considering it's a cartoon. Good animation, story, characters (my favorite character is Merlin), songs, music, art and dialogue. There were times when I felt sad, but the movie was mostly of a comedic and fantasy medium. I also like the way it's drawn and created, it's very much a late 50s/early 60s production, which it is in fact December of 1963 upon its release date in the United States. It's hard to believe it took 3 years to make the movie. Though it was conceived in as early as ca. 1949. A great movie for ages (in my opinion) 7 to 107. I recommend this movie to people who like cartoons, fantasies, comedies, musicals, dramas, and kid-friendly movies. It may not be the most historically accurate movie in the world, it still rocks nonetheless. Charming entertainment for little kids and adults alike.
I can't say I loved this movie. It was kind of fun but there were a lot of things that could have been better. I'm not complaining that it's unfaithful to the book, though, since I haven't read the book. But there were quite a few things that I didn't like.The main thing I didn't like was how Merlin taught Wart life lessons only through turning him into animals. I mean, he's a powerful sorcerer, right? So why not do something else? Okay, maybe one animal transformation would have been alright. If he just turned Wart into a bird and that was it and there were two other different things, I think it would have been alright. I mean, why not take Wart to Mars or something? Why not shrink him down to the size of an atom? Anyway, the part with the squirrels was just a bit awkward and went on far too long.And another thing I didn't like was how Merlin just conveniently got so angry with Wart (for wanting to go to the tournament) that he goes to Bermuda (in the future). The reason for this is pretty obvious. Just before the climax of the movie, Wart forgets Sir Kay's sword in the inn in which they are staying. Wart goes to retrieve it but the door is locked. THIS is the practical reason why Merlin goes away (the in-story reason is that he gets very angry, of course, which is just not very believable). It would look very silly if a powerful wizard was unable to open a locked door. Still, I thought THE SWORD IN THE STONE was okay. It's definitely not terrible. Merlin and Archimedes are pretty cool.It's pacing is slow but it's still kind of fun to watch.
I love the King Arthur legend, it's always been one of my favorite fantasy tales. Probably one of the reasons is the fact that it's inspiring, that a greatness exists in all of us.This is one of my favorite animated movies and as you guessed it relics from my childhood. I saw this film when I was 7, I loved it then and I love it even as an adult. This film also was what introduced me to the King Arthur legend, so if it wasn't for this film I never would of known about the story.Not a lot I can say, I love the story, it's straightforward and simple but that why I love it. The animation I think is very good, it's nothing totally revolutionary but it's great in capturing a period in time long gone and the character animation is solid. The music is good it's not quite memorable which to me is probably the weak point of the film, thought the score that stands out was in the discovery of Excalubur which I thought was cool had a spiritual tone to it. However this weakness has an advantage from the fact there there really aren't many music numbers which I'm fine with since I'm not a fan of musicals.The characters are solid, Arthur is a decent protagonist, not much to say about him his the typical underdog but what makes him stand out a bit is the fact he's sympathetic. This guy practically gets crap canned left and right, from his jerk of a brother, down to the amount of responsibilities that have been dumped on him. I know there's such a think as teaching a kid responsibility but having to clean which looks like three dump truck loads of dishes by hand, that's just going overboard. This just all the more makes us want Arthur to win in the end.However, the three that stand out are Merlin, Archimedes, and Madam Mim.Merlin is pretty much a mentor figure but he's a fun one. He's got some great lines but I like that he's kinda an eccentric as we can easily see from his workshop which just looks clutter just like his mind.Archimedes is kinda the straight man or owl. He's wise and is always trying to keep things in balance. It's just funny how much grief Merlin gives him as things get out of his control.Madam Mim she's a fun villainous whom kinda was a villain that just pop out of the blue. She's just a crazy witch, she doesn't really have much of a goal except just to one up Merlin which seems to be her only goal.I really like the back and forth between Arthur and Merlin which is funny but also meaningful and touching. It's sort of like Dannel and Myugi in 'The Karate Kid' just as Myugi teaches Dannel Karate he also teaches him the philosophies of life. Same with Merlin whom teaches Arthur lessons about the world he's also really teaching him to have faith in himself.One of my favorite sequences and one of my favorite one on one battles is the magic duel between both Merlin and Madam Mim. It is one of the most exiting, hilarious, and craziest battles I've ever seen; it's by it's nature a game of high card as both of them are trying to metamorph into a creature that can overpower the other. They turn into all kinds of animals as well as some creatures that don't exist except in imagination.Another favorite sequence is of course the discovery of Excalibur (which I think is a beautiful design of the sword) and the drawing out of it. In a way the story I've always felt was also a Christian story since the them I felt was about faith. The problem with Arthur was that he never really believed in himself or that there is greatness. His reason for drawing out the sword was to help someone, he even does it a second time because it was the right thing to do. To me those are genuine reasons for the sword to be drawn out, it was never about physical strength but spiritual. Arthur spirit was strong because he wasn't desiring to be King or any other selfish ambition but simply just to do the right thing which I feel is what fuels belief in oneself, and with that kind of faith one can accomplish anything but most importantly be what they deserve to be.It wasn't just a sword that Arthur drew out but the truth about himself and his own greatness, the greatness that exists in all of us.Rating: 4 stars
Seriously, why didn't this movie received better than the reception it had? I thought that this was a very underrated Disney flick next to Robin Hood and The Black Cauldron. Sure, it's not in the same depth as the later films including most of the Renaissance films, but it's still a good movie to watch for the whole family. Now that it celebrated it's 50th Anniversary, this is my final review for 2013 before 2014 starts.It tells the story bout Arthur/Wart, a measly servant knave who dreams of becoming a knight but is barely certain he may act as squire to castle lord Sir Ector's son Kay. Then, the sorcerer Merlin and his grumpy, talking owl Archimedes invite themselves to the castle and move into its dilapidated north tower. Merlin, who can magically access the future, intends to prepare Wart for a grand future, so he gives the squirt dangerous lessons, transforming themselves into animals to learn the mental skills befitting a knight and a ruler.With that said, there are a lot of good things about this film. The animation is beautiful and it's character animation is decent. The characters are likable and the voice acting is solid. The story has heart and comedy mixed perfectly, the writing is excellent, and there is a great moment where Merlin battles against Madam Mim in their animal forms which made the whole movie worth it. The songs, while not the best work from the Sherman brothers, are tolerable enough to listen to and the music score is solid.Overall, The Sword in the Stone came this close to becoming a masterpiece, but with all of my heart, as a Disney fan, this is an extremely underrated movie that deserves a lot more recognition than the reception it received. Thumbs up! :)
Walt Disney produced this animated version of the legend of King Arthur and the wizard Merlin, who in this adaptation teaches a young Arthur(nicknamed Wart!) the ways of the world, and how to read, etc. He is helped by Archimedes the wise old owl, though Arthur's bumbling and idiotic relatives are a hindrance, as is evil Madam Mim, a witch who wants to battle Merlin out of professional jealousy and overall malice. At one point, Arthur finds himself transformed into a squirrel, and must fend off the affections of a lady squirrel(a most sad interlude in the film, and also its highlight). Misfired film is a real disappointment; it looks inexplicably cheap, and the story is dumbed-down and charmless, not to mention tedious. Watch 'Excalibur' instead!
This is one of my favorite Disney movies. I've watched it since I was a little kid and a it still entertains and makes me smile to this day. However, while I originally just watched it blissfully, my adult mind has asked me 'Why do I like this?' So here's what I think of this great Disney classic: First of all, being Disney, this has nothing to do with the original book, but, again being Disney, they created a great story with lots of imagination. The main story is a young Arthur(sometimes referred to as 'Wart') falls into the cottage of Merlin, the most powerful wizard. Merlin, being a soothsayer/time traveler, knows of Arthur's great destiny, so he begins to teach him valuable life lessons that will help him lead righteously. What follows are a lot of funny adventures with fun animation and characters.I LOVE Merlin in this movie. He's easily in my Top 5 Best Disney Characters List. Instead of being stuffy and wise, as most versions portray, he's more like a bumbling English professor. He's smart, but he's forgetful. He lives in the past but prefers the future. He knows what he's doing, but he doesn't always pay attention. He always has a solution, but they don't always work to his advantage. In short, he's the perfect mix of a character that keeps him from being a stuffy old man or an annoying idiot. The voice actor for him is perfect as well. I don't see a celebrity in a recording booth, I hear an actual character who's having fun. The design is simple but unique, with a blue pointy hat and a long white beard, which is typically what people think of when they think wizards. With all these things, Disney has created a perfect three-dimensional character that entertains, teaches, and is really fun to watch.Several other characters are brilliantly done as well. There's Archimedes, Merlin's talking intelligent owl, who has a grumpy personality but a heart of gold. He has a lot of great lines and moments throughout the movie, usually of him getting coerced into doing something. Then there's the 'villain', Mad Madam Mim. Note that I say 'villain', because she's more of a side character who pops up in the middle of the movie, has a musical number and a fight scene, and is never seen again. She's an old cranky crone, but very energetic and very creative with her magic, as she shows in her song, which she brags is as powerful as Merlin's. The Wizard's Duel between her and Merlin... WOW! This is nearly animated perfection. The slapstick, the timing, the effects, the scaling, is all perfect. I won't DARE give away how it all ends. You need to see it yourself.Besides the characters, there are a few other good things to note. The sketchy animation and backgrounds supervised by Bill Peet people either love or hate. I think it fits and makes a lot of the movie looks like an illustration in an old book, which looks great. The songs are all memorable, from the introduction song to 'Higitus Figitus' to 'Mad Madam Mim' and others, they're creative with the bouncy beat we usually associate with Disney. Though the movie does show the financial difficulties Disney was going through at the time, they did great with what they had, better than the next few movies that would come out of the Disney Dark Ages...So this sounds like a great movie. What's the problem? ...Well, the main problems, sadly, are with the story and the other characters. Notice that I didn't list Arthur in the Great Characters part. He doesn't have much of a personality, just serving as the 'everyman', the student to learn a lesson and to share the audience's amazement of Merlin's magic. Not exactly boring, but with being the main focus of the story and in contrast to Merlin's 3D character, he's a disappointment. His closed-minded guardians named Sir Ector and Sir Kay are even more boring, with their only thing of note that they believe in strict discipline and the old ways. They show up, there's a short conflict, then they leave. They have basically nothing else to do with the movie but create short bouts of 'reality.'The story, I'm sorry to say, is very disjointed. Most of the movie focuses on Merlin's lessons and the adventures he takes Arthur on. I keep forgetting that the land has no king, that they're going to hold a tournament to decide, and YES, even the Sword in the Stone, what the movie is named for, only appears at the beginning and end! Additionally, all the lessons that Merlin teaches Arthur to be a good king, they're never brought up again. There's nothing showing Arthur putting them to use, mentioning them, or any situation that might require them. The movie is basically 'have an adventure, teach a lesson, 5 minutes of plot, repeat.' The ending, without giving anything away, just ends. No resolution, no 'what next', it just runs out of time and leaves the rest to draw your own conclusions.In conclusion, this movie is REALLY FUN, one of Disney's best. However, they put nearly all their focus and creativity into Merlin and his world and left the rest of the movie to run on autopilot. If they had made Arthur as interesting and fleshed-out as Merlin and given more meaning to the lessons, this might have been a fantastic movie. As is, the movie is still great to watch, both for young and old. It's a Disney classic, and I thoroughly enjoy it.
50 year has passed since this movie came out.It really shows it's age.Anyway I seen worse Disney classics.A boy finds a magical sword and meets the wizard Merlin.In the climax Merlin and a witch fights each other.An unusual fight with transformed critters and a dragon.It's a playful and colorful movie that seems to spoof Disney itself.The cuteness kills the movie.But the songs are memorable and lively.There are romance, animal antics and a duel.So what's not to love? 8/10
The Sword In The Stone is a personal favourite of all the Disney animated films. It has a number of things that make it feel rather unique including the laid back tone, lack of a true villain and how it mainly teaches lessons about life. It is certainly one of Disney's most interesting and enjoyable films.The plot loosely follows the book of the same name, Arthur (mainly known as Wart)is a boy who aims to be a knight's squire. When out hunting he falls through the roof of Merlin, a brilliant but slightly eccentric wizard and his highly educated owl Archimedes. Merlin knows that Arthur has the potential for brilliance and decides to give him an education so he can achieve anything. Along the way they change into a variety of animals, meet the menacing witch Madam Mim and learn a lot about life. The story does have a very warm and inviting feel to it. It is an intelligent film presented in a fun way which lets you learn as well as be entertained, it doesn't try to tone down smart aspects and that helps it to stand out. The characters are all brilliant which is crucial as it makes the film work. Arthur is a likable, naïve boy who we know will learn from his experiences to become king. However it was distracting how three different people did his voice, which explains why it changes frequently and it can be pretty annoying. Merlin is a wonderful lead for Arthur, his dissatisfaction with the times and frustrations with Arthur are very funny as he's nicely voiced by Karl Swenson. Talking owl Archimedes is brilliant too, his reactions to events and grouchy outbursts are hilarious, and he also offers a good link between Merlin's weirdness and the real world. Mim is great as she offers the closest thing to a villain, making a good impression in her short screen time. The brash Ector and arrogant Kay are great support as Arthur's adoptive family. The animation is stellar as always, the 60s saw some really good looking animation. It is relatively simple, but it does feel very authentic and it fits in perfectly. The views presented of the castle and forests really do bring an authentic as well as nicely atmospheric feel. The film is certainly the most philosophical of all the Disney film which adds to its individuality, it's nice that it focuses on the trials of life rather than jump into all the action which can be a flaw of many Disney films. When the scenes of adventure do come along they are all the more effective. The adventures as fish and squirrels are really enjoyable, filled with excitement and suspense as well as plenty of laughs. The climactic battle between Merlin and Mim is just fantastic, they turn into different animals and duel which leads to some great action and animation. The climax involving Excalibur is also well set up and nicely uplifting. Disney's songs can be a bit boring, but here they are excellent, songs such as 'Higitus Figitus' are really catchy and great fun. One of the few complains is the wish for it to have been longer, but given the time it was released it is understandable. One of Disney's stronger and more underrated efforts, it is a brilliantly enjoyable feature.
nice, didactic, amusing, touching. a classical Disney respecting the old recipes.it is not a surprise or one of great animation but after years and many meetings it remains fresh. and this is important. the mixture between humor and lessons , the first image of king Arthur for kids, the splendid Archimedes and so childish-wise Merlin are the best food for soul and imagination. a beautiful adventure - that is its virtue. and not an ordinary one but a delicate definition of miracles, danger, victories and traps. and few scenes remains remarkable far from every fashion. for many it can be seed of memories or a rediscover of a different manner to create the spell of animation. for other - a part of life, when this movie was inspiration for a large and amazing personal world.
A young orphan named 'Wart' wants nothing more than to be the squire to his older foster brother. Merlin the Magician sees more potential in the boy and begins training him for a greater destiny. 'Wart' accompanies his brother to a tournament in London, where he will discover his true fate as Merlin's visions of greatness unfold.We all know how it feels when you remember a movie one way from childhood and realize as an adult it's not quite as it seemed. That was my feeling as I watched Disney's 'The Sword in the Stone.' Far be it for me to start slinging mud at what is considered to be a classic in the eyes of many. However, it became tedious watching Merlin the Magician teach 'Wart' life lessons through turning himself and the boy into one animal after another and breaking into song.I've never been a big fan of any musicals. I'm sure this factor has everything to do with my lack of enthusiasm for 'The Sword in the Stone.' My preferred version of the Arthur story would lean more towards the adventurous 'Excalibur.' 'The Sword in the Stone' does contain quite a bit of magic. Some people with certain religious convictions will find this a good reason to steer clear of the movie. I would have to say that anyone who watches 'The Lord of the Rings' films has no right to throw rocks at this one.My 7-year old loved 'The Sword in the Stone,' so maybe I've just outgrown it. He's watched it twice already, where I found it near impossible to sit through once. If children like it, does it really matter what this old reviewer thinks about it anyway? It's been proved time and time again that Disney movies are critic-proof.
just like brain over brawn, Merlin's eternal motto.The initial reactions to 'The Sword in the Stone' left me astonished. How could such a merry and original piece of animation get such negative criticism? From what I've read, nothing was spared: the animation didn't match the quality of previous Disney's works, the episodic structure lead to a conclusion disappointing because of the lack of a memorable plot line or a clearly defined antagonist  in this list of flaws, where I only concede the issue with Wart's voice, nothing seemed enjoyable enough to redeem the film: not Merlin's eccentric personality, not the humor made of unusual anachronistic references, not even the scene- stealing exuberance of Madame Mim.Well, since reviewing is about giving opinions, I'll give you mine: 'The Sword in the Stone' was victim of an unfair bias constantly leaning on Disney's 'Golden Age' standards, while for one thing, it was a respectable attempt to take some distance from the usual formulas (and I'm pretty sure viewers enjoyed the new storytelling format, since the film ended-up being one of the highest grossing of 1963). And now that these fifty years of existence did justice to 'Sword in the Stone', now that there are enough Disney animated features to make a clear distinction between the indisputable classics, the underrated gems, and the forgettable ones, I think we can all agree that 'The Sword in the Stone' is in the same league than 'The Jungle Book' or 'Robin Hood', all contained in that entertaining parenthesis of the 60's-70's. And it's precisely the sketchy animation so typical of that period that elevates 'The Sword in the Stone' to more interesting level of appreciation, more focused on the story, as the counterpart of such ambitious projects like 'Sleeping Beauty', a film of dazzling imagery but certainly poorer story-wise. 'The Sword in the Stone' is an educational journey guided by Merlin the wizard, whose long beard, blue pointed hat and long robe belong to the best of Disney iconography. His disciple is Wart, a twelve-year old boy, whose destiny is to become the future legendary King Arthur. The mentorship goes through different stages, using magic as an accessory but never as the crucial tool, in order to make Wart learn from practice, the values of the driving forces of our universe: physics, gravity or survival, all the stuff that makes 'things go round' and the greatest lesson of all being that brains always triumph on brawn.This 'brains over brawn' dichotomy is the pattern that forged human civilization and Merlin's divinatory power allowed him to check the validity of his point, what Wart would only see through experience. The film is made of many vignettes during which Arthur is turned into an animal. As a fish, he's victim of a bullying bull-frog before confronting a pike, as a squirrel, a female gets infatuated with him, turning the lesson on gravity into one about a much greater force. The third lesson involves Arthur as a sparrow learning to fly with Merlin's owl Archimedes, but his abrupt encounter with the witch Madame Mim, Merlin's archenemy, leads to one of Disney's greatest moments: the wizardry duel. The sequence is a triumph of imagination and animation combined, having both characters turning into various animals while conserving their defining traits is a delight to the eyes, and it concludes perfectly with Mim finally 'catching' Merlin' but not the way she intended.Again, Merlin always proves his point.The secret of 'The Sword in the Stone' lies essentially on its relative absence of a plot, and the episodic structure, which constitutes the basis of Merlin's mentorship. Each sequence is not only full of educational and philosophical value but stands alone as a great moment of animation. The fish part involves Arthur's first confrontation with a giant predator and the first opportunity to use his brains by turning his smaller size to his advantage. In the process, it also unveils an heroic facet in Archimedes' grouchy personality. The squirrel part, after a series of laughs driven by Merlin's misadventure with a fat beaver-like creature, finally illustrates Disney's formula that for every laugh, there should be a tear. And even if it's not 'Bambi' or 'Lion King', there's something extremely poignant and heart-breaking in the squirrel part's conclusion, even more because it's unexpected.But there are laughs in the film, and quite a lot, 'The Sword in the Stone' is full of anachronisms, of priceless interactions between Merlin and Archimedes, who make a great pair of 'Grumpy Old Men', and some hilarious scenes involving a wolf that have irresistible Warner Bros cartoon vibes. And the few songs are so catchy we end up inevitably humming them while enjoying the animation.Who can resist to the sight of Merlin's furniture lined-up with a hot-tempered sugar pot on the lead, and being reduced over and over again to fit in a ridiculously small bag, or to the dishes washing by themselves motivated by all these 'Hockity-Pockity' or 'Higites-Figitus', which sound like improvement on 'Cinderella''s 'Bobbidi-Bibbidi'?The film isn't flawless, the irony is that the more you like it, the more you watch it and discover some bits of repetitive or lazy animations. But 'The Sword in the Stone' works thanks to its independence from a plot line's tyranny. Granted the film doesn't feature all the Disney archetypes, Mim is the main antagonist but not the larger-than-life villain with a heart- pounding demise. Even Arthur's foster father Ector has heart and his son Kay is more of a dim-witted comic relief. No abundance of songs, no memorable climax either except from the wizardry duel and the magical sword moment, but despite all these missing elements, 'The Sword in the Stone', through its difference, marks itself among the most memorable work from Disney studios with an undeniable educational, intellectual and philosophical value.
The book 'The Sword in the Stone' by T.H. White is a trove of wisdom for children and adults, and a paean of love to medieval England, but virtually none of the best material from the novel finds its way to the screen in this soulless adaptation. Most Disney classics are like stepping into a fantasy storybook, but this is little more than a cheap cartoon. Something meaningful could have been made of Arthur's encounter with an amorous squirrel (this occurs while he himself is in the body of a squirrel), something akin to the beautiful and literary swan episode in White's book. But while there is a hint of real emotion in the film's squirrel scene, it is largely overshadowed by meaningless back-and-forths between Merlin's own squirrel avatar and a husky female of the species. This is representative of the movie's many missed opportunities, and its preference for slapstick over reflection.
After the success of 101 Dalmatians, The Sword in The Stone was released in December of 1963, and the last animated film Walt Disney would see completed and released.The story is about a Wizard named Merlin, who teaches Arthur about life lessons and how to use his brain, as Merlin knows that Arthur is going to be something big. Arthur pulls out the sword, making him king.Most of the characters in this film are extremely boring, except for Madame Mim and Merlin. Mim is the bad wizard who appears in the last 15 minutes of the film, and is a bit bubbly despite being evil. Merlin is the original Genie with all the modern day references, and is the comic relief; he is a cool guy. Arthur does not warrant any interest at all, and the fact that he is voiced by 3 VOICE ACTORS is probably the only thing that stands out about him. All of the other characters (the deadhead father and son, etc) are extremely forgettable.This movie only has a few songs. 'Higitus Figitus' is a Bibidi Bobidi Bo type song, but played down, and 'Madame Mim' is just alright. The introduction song is pretty neat though. The soundtrack is just alright.The animation is not up to par with the previous films, and the Xerography in this movie makes it even more bland and forgettable than it is; they should have used the animation from the 50s, but that was too expensive. Here is where the reused animation in Disney films start to become obvious, as you would see the same animation sketches in the next few movies. The character designs are alright, but the animation is good when Merlin is using magic.With the weak plot, mostly weak characters, and everything else average, this movie is where the magic in Disney films start to wane away. This film is not very memorable, but there is some good and entertaining parts in the movie (Merlin vs Mim, squirrel scene). If you want to watch a Disney film that you have not watched in a while, this may be the movie. Give it a watch, you will find some moments you like, but don't expect it to be a great movie.
I remember seeing this among other Disney films I saw in elementary school (at least part of them anyway) and those that aired on non-cable t.v. Some years later, I viewed this on Youtube a while back and for some time afterward, I'd been considering and wanting to buy a copy of the 45th Anniversary edition of it. I finally did last month and it's great seeing it once again. I never really thought or paid attention to it as much as some, certain other Disney animated features, but now I think I have to concur that it's one of the more underrated ones. A boy named Arthur (a.k.a. Wart) has the dream of one day becoming a squire. But little does he know that he's destined for something much greater, which is being the new English king, which is the position he takes over later from his late father (although being new at this and not knowing much about a ruler's duties, Wart isn't so sure he's up to it). This occurs once he successfully pulls out the enchanted sword from the stone. That makes sense, considering he's his son and he eventually inherits his place on the throne. But before that, while going off to retrieve another sword in the woods for his foster brother Kay, he comes across a cottage where he meets the grand wizard, Merlin, and his highly intellectual owl, Archimedes. Merlin appoints himself as Wart's tutor and emphasizes brains used as associated with an education being more important than brawn. This movie has a lot of thrilling moments, such as Wart getting a feel of what it's like to be different animals through the help of Merlin's magic, Merlin's talks about what are yet to come from his time travels (which leaves anyone from his time he tries to explain to about them puzzled or perplexed) and what's one of the most renowned moments, if not the most renowned moment, the Wizard's Duel between Merlin and the witch Mad Madam Mim. I never read the initial source that inspired Disney's take, but I read a little there was mentioned about it in the difference between this and T.H. White's book, which is this version being more comical. Aside from the fact that again I never read the original source, I don't mind nor do I think I would even if I did. I recommend this to anyone who's into adventure. Because it has plenty of it, making it still outstanding nonetheless of other things.
I don't know exactly why many people don't praise this movie more. I absolutely love this film. There are not many songs in the movie but the ones that are in it are enjoyable.Merlin who is a wizard that can see centuries into the future and lives with his annoying but lovable owl Archimedes predicts that a young boy of around 11 or 12 will drop into his house and sure enough he's dead on. Merlin takes the young Wart who is the future King of England, on many adventures and tries to teach Wart that knowledge is power.Somewhere along the way Wart is appointed to be Kay's squire at a jousting competition. Merlin is upset by this and says 'Blow me to Bermuda!' Merlin takes off and Wart and Archimedes are left alone. Here is where we find that Wart goes to pull out the sword in the stone because he forgot Kay's sword. He tells Sir Ector that he got the sword from the stone yet nobody believes him at first but they go back and find that he was really the one who pulled it and is therefore dubbed King Arthur, King of all England.I love the wizard's duel between Merlin and the evil Madam Mim. One of the best parts of the movie. And also the part where Merlin is being chased by the fat girl squirrel who takes a fancy to him. Love this film!
This is Disney's version of the legend of King Arthur and it represents an adaptation of T.H. White's children's story. Here, Arthur is a young boy who is unaware of his great destiny. He meets and befriends the great wizard Merlin who decides to give him a proper instruction and education in order to prepare him for his future.The film has some great characters: Merlin the wizard and his intellectually trained owl Archimedes are particularly funny. The animation is very good, but this is Disney after all, so you would expect it to be like that. The film is definitely entertaining, but there are a few drawbacks as well. There are moments when it feels a little too similar to Disney's other animated features from that period. The film also incorporates a lot of plot elements from other Disney movies and the film is very predictable at times. In comparison to another Disney classic, 'Sleeping Beauty', this film looks more like a secondary project.'The Sword in the Stone' is nevertheless a good film and it is superior to many of Disney's modern efforts ('Hercules', 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame' or 'Pocahontas' to name a few). It is very entertaining and definitely worth watching.My rating: 7/10
I cannot believe I never wrote a comment on The Sword in the Stone, my friends always joke how I'm the ultimate Mickey Mouse since I'm such a fan and I own every Disney movie on DVD. I wanted to watch one of my movies last night and I picked The Sword in the Stone and rediscovered how much I loved this movie when I was a kid and still love it today. I went on IMDb to see if I gave the appropriate rating, but I was surprised to see that I never did write about it, but I guess better late then never. Sword in the Stone is just a classic treasure that no family should be without but also the film lovers. A wonderful classic story told Disney style and filled with great songs and beautiful animation, how could anyone not fall in love with The Sword in the Stone.The 'Sword in the Stone' appears in London, with an inscription proclaiming that 'Who so Pulleth Out This Sword of this Stone and Anvil, is Rightwise King Born of England.' None succeed in removing the sword, which is soon forgotten, leaving England in a Dark Age. Some years later, Arthur aka 'Wart', a 12-year-old orphan training to be a squire. While accompanying his older foster brother Kay on a hunting trip. He falls into Merlin's cottage, Merlin declares himself Wart's tutor and the two return to Wart's home, a castle run by Sir Ector, Arthur's foster father. There Merlin stays with Arthur to teach him the ways of the world and the magic as well as the intelligence and strength he will need for his true destiny.I think my favorite moment of this film is definitely the battle between Merlin and Mim, since this is one of the rare Disney movies that doesn't have a definitive villain, but I think Mim was a close as you could get. Their battle was epic and absolutely amazing to watch, plus I love the classic sound effects with good old slap stick humor. Also I loved the story when Merlin turned Arthur and himself into squirrels and they were attacked by the lady squirrels was just too cute for words. I know the animation isn't up to par with today's standards, but this is the exact animation that I loved growing up with because the animators seemed to have a love for the film they were making.The Sword in the Stone is a classic Disney film that should never be missed and I can't wait to show my children one day. Disney always had a way of taking classic stories that may not interest a small child and puts action, adventure, romance and wonderful animation into it and made it come to life. I can't believe I hadn't watched this movie since I was a kid, because no film lover should be without this treasure, it's just so excellent and magical, takes you back to a simpler time where we were destined for greatness and the world was at our fingertips.10/10
Pleasant Disney animation, without being a classic. It has its moments, particularly the magic-fight between Merlin and Mim, but is light on characterisation and especially good songs. The soundtrack tunes are very simplistic both melodically and especially lyrically and resolutely refuse to stay in your brain.The narrative itself is unusual, introducing the sword in the stone legend immediately and then dispensing with it until the last five minutes or so, concentrating its energies instead on young Arthur (read Wort) and his upbringing by the kindly Merlin and his obstinate talking owl Archimedes.I kept seeing recollections of past Disney (and other) cartoon forebears, everything from, naturally enough the Sorcerer's Apprentice from 'Fantasia' and 'Cinderella' while the chasing wolf early on is a blatant lift of Wile E Coyote in the 'Road Runner' shorts. The old Disney trick of an experienced elder mentoring a young innocent had of course been done before in 'Pinocchio' and 'The Jungle Book' although I could also see some ideas which were adapted in future projects, the animated crockery anticipates 'Beauty and the Beast' for instance.Disney never did return to the Arthurian Legnd in future animations as was hinted might happen here which is a pity but for me there's far too much diversion from the legend itself so that I was willing young Arthur to hurry up and give the sword the required pull long before the ending, which when it does arrive seems far too rushed in any case.No, not the best Disney by a long way and certainly not in the vanguard of the studio's work.
While I love the Disney classics so much, of course there are a few which may not meet the standards completely. By this, I mean, their story.It's hard to explain with this one. It did have a lot of content, but not much of a story. To be honest, it was better that way. However, I still felt that it could have gone another hour or so.But for the lack of story, it did have a lot of content, some of which, including the fish (water), squirrel (land) and bird (sky) scenes that I laughed at, as well as the sword in the stone scenes.I rate this 7/10 mostly because it could have had more story in it. At least 30 minutes more, since it got my attention and I wanted to see more interaction with the magic.I loved the good guy vs badguy scene though. That was really clever and funny!
this is one of my very favorite animated features from Disney's classic library and archives. when i was a kid it was one of my very favorite of all and i think i appreciate it more now then i did way back then. there is so much sophistication and intelligent wit in the dialog and conception that it can hardly be fully appreciated by a kid.this definitely has one of the best screenplays and dialog of all the Disney classics. even though it has beautiful, classic hand drawn animation and some wonderful visuals, it is more dialog and screenplay reliant than most Disney hand drawn animated feature films of the past or present for that matter.one of the things i love best about Disney animated features from the 1960's, is their emphasis on character animation. the human animation of Merlin, Wart, sir hector and Kay is incredibly nuanced and believable with lots of attention payed to movements and performance. the animation of Archimedes and the villainous Mim is some of Disney's most engaging and cutest.in fact this is one of Disney's warmest, cutest and most engaging films. Disney also does this like no one else, Disney films always emphasize cozy cuteness and ooky poo cuddly values, but strangely they emerge from it unscathed. icky baby adorable cuteness can pretty much kill a movie and make it unwatchable for anyone older than the 'Barney', 'Yo Gabba' age group. not so with Disney films usually. they often handle the sentimental, cuddly cuteness so well that you hardly think about how cozy and snuggly the films are until afterwards. nothing hardly ever seems saccharine or forced, especially with the older Disney classics.cuteness aside, this is also a very sophisticated cartoon with some great dialog and dry, intelligent, adult wit. there are so many great lines of dialog here you can't write em all down in one review. the conversation Archimedes and Merlin have when Merlin tries to teach the Wart history in reverse is hilarious and classic. 'you can't let the boy go around telling people the world is flat' says Archimedes dryly, 'they'll take him for a lunatic'. there is a classic moment during Merlin's hocus pocus nonsense song where he forgets and asks 'where was i?', to which the Wart replies, 'uh-hockety pockety?'. so much here is subtle and amusing. the closing line of dialog where Merlin explains the difference between motion pictures and television to Wart is one of the funniest and cleverest closing lines in all of cinema comedy.comic and sentimental, cute and infinitely wise, this film is a real Disney treasure and comic, witty gem.
When it comes to classic Disney, The Sword in the Stone is usually overlooked compared to other sixties releases. Not one character here has had the kind of iconography many of Disney's characters have, with the possible exception of Merlin. There are no classic villains and the conflict is pretty loose and undeveloped. Despite all this, I think the film deserves a bit more love than it typically gets. It's not a great Disney movie, but it's a solid one with scenes of real note.Nevertheless, Disney's influence is notably more scattershot in this film than in any of the previous ones. This is bad when your movie is dealing with the coming of age of King Arthur of all people. Our Arthur in this tale is too damn cute for us to really buy his potential, and Merlin, though great fun, seems like just about the worst teacher you could possibly hand a student to (one of his lessons seems to be to always use magic to fudge your chores...brilliant). The various episodes generally don't add up to much of anything other than chase scenes and slapstick comedy. Considering we're dealing with an older character than Pinocchio, it's just too bad that Pinocchio had to deal with much more hellish and sobering obstacles than does Wart.If, however, we forget that this isn't a great narrative and focus on the individual bits, there's some fun to be had. Design wise, it's not One Hundred and One Dalmations but it's still loaded with some great stylized visuals and colors. Milt Kahl gets to do some straight cartooning with Merlin, and succeeds quite spectacularly, particularly in his use of hands (animators take note...Kahl was a master of that hard-to-draw limb). There's another great example of slapstick in Brian Sibley's wolf character, who is completely useless and might as well have been taken out altogether but is so inventively utilized that I don't mind him at all. I think the same of Madame Mim, who again serves a pretty dubious purpose (remember, young Wart, if someone insults you...shoot magic at them) but on her own terms is very entertaining.However, I do not have this complaint with the squirrel sequence, which is one of the best scenes in any Disney movie. Not only is it a masterful example of boarding and animation working together, it actually manages to balance some good physical comedy with a poignant message...one that Merlin's other lessons could stand to incorporate. Frank Thomas did most of this scene, and it's a great example of difficult motions handled with a strong sense of weight (one animator associate of mine played it on his ipod while doing some work, and when I pointed out how much I liked that scene he responded with 'Yes, it's...so beautiful,' before tearing up. I wouldn't go quite that far...) Really, though, it's a shame we couldn't have gotten a ballsier version of this story. There's just not much to it. When Merlin leaves at the end, we shrug our shoulders and wonder why it should matter. Wart doesn't learn anything really, except in a few instances. The movie's quite watchable, but little else. Oddly, I think the transformation scenes must have influenced some of Osamu Tezuka's work (like Buddha) but he was much more forceful with how this pertained to character growth. If Sword in the Stone had done the same, it might have been another great and unusual Disney movie, rather than a somewhat tepid collection of solid scenes. Still, I'd consider it underrated on this level.
I used to catch this randomly on television as a kid and I was always very excited when I was lucky enough to catch it. I never really knew what it was, but I remember absolutely loving it.The Sword in the Stone story is really great and this animated one intended for kids is fantastic. Wart is a great character, as he is naïve, yet willing to explore what Merlin has to teach him.There are two scenes that I vividly recall loving as a child. The first is the scene where Wart and Merlin turn into squirrels and run around the trees. I have always loved squirrels and always thought that looked like a fun time.Second, I loved the wizards duel. I thought it was brilliant how Merlin turned into a germ to beat the seemingly invincible dragon.Disney's 'The Sword in the Stone' is an awesome animated tale that is unfortunately looked over. It's a gem of a kid's movie.
While Carsten Corleis' review on here hits the nail on the head and I thoroughly recommend reading it, I'll give you my perspective.This is not a perfect movie by any length, but it has heart. There's happiness and there's sadness. It features one of the most powerful scenes in a movie I've ever seen. The young female squirrel with tears in her eyes and a broken heart is just so heart-wrenching.We must remember that kids need to see the good and the bad to have moral perspective. And let's face it, you wouldn't see such a sad scene in today's animated movies. And if you did, it would be made happy by the movie's end.The story is a bit lacking, but it's a kids movies at the end of the day.Merlin's final line of the movie is far more powerful and takes on a different meaning that it would have had back in the day as a simple joke: 'Motion picture...that's like television, without commercials.' The irony is a bit too much to bare. This is an innocent wee movie, definitely one to show the kids. 7/10
I distinctly recall this as the favorite film of my early childhood. Whenever we went on a trip, this was the movie I brought for the car ride (much to other passengers' chagrin). Looking back now, it seems odd, what with the lesser quality animation and sloppy voiceovers on the main character (not to mention the lack of princesses!). But even with all the faux pas that I normally rake animated films over the coals for, there's just something about this movie that is sincerely endearing beyond the limitations of reason.First off, the comedy is unparalleled. No snarky jokes or one-ups, no pop culture reliance, no BATHROOM HUMOR. Just a masterful blend of character, situations and wordplay. Yet at the same time, a level of poignancy is attained that just tweaks your heart at the right moment. I would say that the squirrel sequence is one of the best executed scenes in animated history. Interestingly, this film also houses one of the best studies of character animation: the wizard's duel where Merlin and Mim change into a variety of creatures without losing their essential defining traits.The lessons of this story are also wonderfully unique in the Disney canon. There is no singular overarching villain that our hero overcomes. Rather Arthur learns to shape his own character and take command of destiny. It is not battles that define the hero, but his ability to take insight from the world around him and apply it to his own growth.I can see the reasons why this film often gets overshadowed by showier works like Little Mermaid, but I also see the wonders that await once you give it a chance. Sword and the Stone offers a different kind of Disney that is both refreshing and a comfort to watch.Quote of the Film:-I am not a boy, I'm a squirre-, I mean I'm not a squirrel, I'm a boy, no, I'm... I'm an old man!
Though well done in itself, this does not often figure among the Walt Disney Studios' most beloved animated features. Even so, the film had a sort of follow-up  by likewise treading the 'Merrie Old England' vein  in the even more maligned ROBIN HOOD (1973), but which I fondly remember from my childhood; for what it is worth, the same was true of the recently-viewed (and reasonably entertaining) THE ARISTOCATS (1970), generally deemed a pale shadow of earlier anthropomorphic animated Disney fare! To be fair, THE SWORD IN THE STONE's attempts to explain the subsequent mythic qualities of King Arthur  by having him as a scrawny wannabe squire embarking on a magical journey of self-discovery under the tutelage of the lovably eccentric Merlin (and his grumpy owl-pal Archimedes)  tend to get lost in rather irrelevant, sometimes overly-cute, and altogether derivative set-pieces (its disparate borrowings ranging from FANTASIA [1940] to BAMBI [1942] and SLEEPING BEAUTY [1959]!). That said, the 'Duel Of Wizards' is certainly inventively handled; interestingly enough, a live-action variant of this was seen contemporaneously in the Roger Corman-directed spoof adaptation of Edgar Allan Poe's THE RAVEN (1963)! While not as charming in the long run as previous Disney fables (with the Sherman Bros.' songs being pleasant but hardly memorable), or as striking a portrait of the Middle Ages as it could have been (considering that its source was T.H. White's celebrated book 'The Once And Future King'), THE SWORD IN THE STONE is nonetheless colorful and engaging fare, keeping one solidly entertained throughout its 79-minute duration (which brevity and target audience, then, necessitated the resulting streamlining/over-simplification).
The Sword and the Stone is a very relaxing movie to watch. In an animation, you want humour and emotion, and this movie had plenty of both. Most of the humour comes from Sir Ektor(voice of Sebastian Cabot) and Archimedes (voice of Junius Matthews), but Merlin (voice of Karl Swenson) had some truly delicious lines. I just love Archimedes, he is absolutely hilarious, and still manages to be likable, despite being very grumpy. The animation was lovely, and the scenes when Wart (voice of Ricky Sorenson)was an animal were truly entertaining. My personal favourite was the squirrel scene, but the duel of Merlin and Mim was the highlight of the film for me. The songs by the Sherman Brothers, while not particularly memorable, were very pleasant to listen to, as was the incidental music by the composer of the Jungle Book George Bruns. All in all, a truly enjoyable movie, that is definitely underrated. 9/10 from me. Bethany Cox
Of course it's enjoyable. I love all of Disney's works at that time. There is something uniquely aesthetic, and so innocent about them; I think that's a definition of 'classic' for me. Here, I can't help but falling in love with the colorful picture, and the soundtrack by the great (Richard & Robert B. Sherman) as creative, lovely and sweet. Just remember: 'A Most Befuddling Thing', 'Blue Oak Tree', 'That's What Makes the World Go Round', 'Higitus Figitus', the musical intro, and a piece of music that I used to call it 'Merlin's Jazz' where all the house's tools work by themselves. Since I didn't have the chance to get the soundtrack, I recorded the songs from the movie's copy. So, is it fine? Actually, NO, it's not totally fine, since it's not a whole movie!It doesn't need an expert to understand that what we watched was a first act of a story. The training of the hero is part of the story, not the whole thing. Even if they wanted to make it as the real deal, then this is a historic case of a deficient movie. The feeling about it is forever inadequate, as it's a perfect intro and nothing more. It's even not dramatically satisfying as part 1 of a trilogy which shows us the full legend of (King Arthur). The plot has no strong conflict; it's only a lesson after lesson, not that memorably funny too, and the climax is weak and hasty. It looks eventually like strangely pure introduction, or eternal imperfect musical. But still the romantic and aesthetic sense of it is so captivating and very well made.In a word: it's one cute incomplete movie.
I remember watching this 1963 Disney effort a number of times during my childhood in the '90s (like I did with several other Disney films I saw, whether they came before or after Walt Disney's death in 1966), so, like most of them, I obviously quite enjoyed it. I've revisited a number of Disney flicks I saw as a kid within the past couple years, but it wasn't until last night that I finally got around to revisiting 'The Sword in the Stone', probably for the first time since sometime back in the day. Yes, I may have enjoyed it slightly more as a kid, but revisiting it after all these years certainly didn't leave me sorely disappointed.In England long ago, after the king dies, a sword in a stone appears, with a message on it saying, 'Who so pulleth out this sword of this stone and anvil is rightwise King born of England.' Sadly, nobody succeeds in pulling out the sword, so it is soon forgotten, and England goes on without a king. After this, England is in a state of anarchy, and a wizard named Merlin, who lives in a forest with a talking owl named Archimedes, knows that an unknown guest of some significance will drop in soon, a boy around eleven or twelve years old. This boy turns out to be Arthur (a.k.a. Wart), an orphan who lives in the castle of Sir Ector, and hopes to become the squire for his boorish foster brother, Sir Kay. However, Merlin sees that Arthur can get farther in life with more education (which the boy doesn't have a lot of), so he begins to educate him by using his magical powers to turn him into different types of creatures and taking him on adventures. However, during the process, Arthur sometimes finds himself in more trouble, and things may not quite go the way Merlin originally thought.Unsurprisingly, this film features some fine animation. I was particularly impressed with some of the forest backgrounds. There's also a lot of humour to be found, especially with Merlin and some of his frustrations, tricks, etc. The humour in the film starts very quickly as soon as Merlin appears and has trouble with the well outside. After that, the character provides many more laughs, such as when he makes the dishes wash themselves to music as they float through the air (which really freaks Sir Ector out when he sees it, and leads to some funny slapstick) the part where he and Arthur are squirrels and a Granny Squirrel won't leave Merlin alone, etc. Some of these I found to be hilarious! Archimedes can also be humorous with his bitter, obnoxious demeanor, and certain other characters sometimes add humour as well, such as an evil witch named Madam Mim who appears in a segment later in the film. Aside from the humour, there are also some moments of suspense, such as the sequence with Merlin and Madam Mim going head to head in a dangerous competition with their magic, as well as some fairly sad or touching moments.Of all the full-length animated motion pictures Walt Disney produced in his career, 'The Sword in the Stone' is certainly not one of the most widely recognized. Without a doubt, it is by no means as popular as 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs', 'Pinocchio', 'Peter Pan', 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians', and others widely hailed as classics. However, that doesn't mean it's a bad one. It may be a tad different from most Disney films, and not exactly one of the best, but with the merits I found in it, I think it's a tad too overlooked, and deserves more attention, so if you haven't seen it, you might want to if you want a humorous telling of the story of King Arthur's beginnings, based on the book by T.H. White. At any rate, it's definitely better than the last King Arthur movie I watched, 1995's 'A Kid in King Arthur's Court', a somewhat cheesy and forgettable live action Disney flick which deserves its significant lack of recognition.
This is another one of those animated Disney films, it is another one of those underrated ones and it is based on the book by T.H White: 'Sword in the Stone'. This is different from quite any of the Disney classics in the fact that (if I am wrong here, I do apologize): it has time travel subtly intertwined among the rest of the film. It is underrated, to put it plainly, because: IT IS A VERY GOOD FILM!! :-) This film is not completely similar to the book by T.H White, but the changes that Disney made are pretty understandable, otherwise this film would last roughly four hours (L.O.L) and it would not be completely suitable for young children. As it is, this Disney film is good for people of any age!! :-)What I like about this film is the characters, the way the makers formed the plot, the songs (which consist of two, which is a little too few) and the humour (which comes predominately from Merlin).As you may have realised, this film is one of many interpretations of the story of King Arthur. Here, Arthur does not pull the sword out of the stone until the very end and it is mostly about him learning of the world with Merlin.I recommend this to anyone who likes Disney films, of all ages, very well worth watching! Enjoy 'Sword in the Stone'! :-)
I only had very vague recollections of this movie until I watched it again just recently and I've decided this is kind of an underrated film.I'm not all that familiar with the original story of the Sword in the Stone aside from the obvious more famous bits but I imagine the story guys on this movie took a lot of liberties. When it comes right down to it the plot is little more than a lot of fluff to fill running time until Arthur AKA Wart gets to the sword. Fluff or not though the film's entertaining enough and allows for the great animation that I found to be the stand out quality here.I'm an animator myself so maybe this means more to me than the average audience, but the character animation on Merlin and Madam Mim can easily go head to head with Disney's more highly regarded classics and the use of effects is remarkable (in classical animation, effects refer to any animation that's not a character i.e. water, smoke, fire, dust etc.) Everything from rain storms to pixy dust is masterly handled and adds a whole layer of wonder to the whole thing. The highlight for me was a showdown between Merlin and Mim in which they morph into a variety of creatures to battle one another and no morph looks the same twice.This is just light hearted entertainment. It's definitely geared more for kids but if you're an animation fan it's worth watching for that alone.
This original Disney Classic has captured the hearts of millions throughout the decades.Generation upon generation has enjoyed it's forever endearing vibe that continues to offer warm hearted laughs and wholesome family fun.Merlin the Wizard is truly a masterpiece of comic relief! I really don't think Disney has produced a funnier Character since. He often has trouble with his over-grown beard and his pet owl, 'Arcamedies'... is always in a rather hateful mood!I think 'Sword in the Stone' should go down in history as one of the BEST animated Disney Movies ever. It's just a Classic! No one can argue with that. The Disney movies being produced these days are.. I hate to say it... but they are boring and *very* over-rated. They offer too much technology and not enough heart.I also think every parent should consider adding 'Sword in the Stone' to their child's video collection. Its good, clean fun that will keep your child entertained every time you pop it in.Go out and buy/rent it today!!!
This film is one of my favorite 'Disney Classics' from my childhood. I have even read the original book by T.H. White. I am a literary woman, and I do have a gimmick for movies and also TV series that are based on books.I love when Wart/Arthur and Merlin the Wizard become squirrels; it was so cute! I also love the scene where Arthur pulled the sword from the stone that is in the churchyard and becomes King Arthur! thus the legend is born. So anyway, I will always love The Sword in the Stone. It is an great movie with interesting characters and great animation too.
'The Sword in the Stone' is the Disney version of the Arthurian legend, adapted from the first of four books by T.H. White telling the life events of the young Arthur, before he became king. It is also the last feature-length animated film from the company of Uncle Walt to be released before he died. In addition, it is the first solo effort of Wolfgang Reitherman who would later direct other great animated movies, such as 'The Jungle Book', 'The Aristocats', 'Robin Hood' and 'The Rescuers'.The movie was released in theaters on Christmas day 1963, almost one month to the day after the assassination of John F. Kennedy. This dark moment in American history established a striking and timely parallel with the dark atmosphere prevailing in England as depicted in the animated film.'The Sword in the Stone' begins by the death of a heir-less king. One night in London, an astral light comes down from the sky and a sword lodged in an anvil itself embed into stone mysteriously appears. On that sword (which will be later known as Excalibur) are inscribed these words: 'Whoso pulleth out the sword of this stone and anvil is rightwise king born of England'. With nobody being able to accomplish the impossible feat, England remains king-less and the period now known as the Dark Ages begin.The movie then shifts to the great hero Arthur himself who is only a not-so-smart puny runt nicknamed Wart (Rickie Sorenson). Venturing into the forest, Wart literally falls on the house of the powerful and wise, but absent-minded wizard Merlin (Karl Swenson) who lives there as a hermit with his educated pet owl Archimedes (Junius Matthews).Merlin, convinced that the young Wart is destined to a great future despite what his physical appearance could reveal, begins to learn him about great life lessons in his fashion by changing him into a fish, a squirrel and a bird.In general, I'd say that the film is not bad, far from it, but it is also far from being excellent. The plot is generally short and somehow empty, but it also contains some rather useless over-long passages.But there's absolutely no doubt that this picture has a lot of ambitions and it has things to show to its audience. In fact, 'The Sword in the Stone' is one of the most instructive Disney movies for the kids, not only because of the number of lessons that can be learned, but also because of their clarity and their direct character, which make them easy to catch and understand.But I would have liked to see these lessons more treated on-screen when Wart becomes king. Merlin predicts celebrity and a bright future to the young monarch, but the young boy has no idea how to govern a state. It's at that moment that the learned lessons should have emerged and Merlin should have mentioned them.After all, Wart's adventures with his mentor brought out the three most important characteristics of a good king: wisdom, love and intelligence. So 'The Sword in the Stone' is for kids what Machiavelli's book 'The Prince' is for adults.Unfortunately, even if it's instructive, 'The Sword in the Stone' loses points when it comes to the capacity to wonder, astonish and entertain. The animation is often spoiled and the sets are visibly nothing more than static colored paper sheets on which animators make mobile characters streaming in and out. It's a colorful movie, but it doesn't necessarily mean that it is alive.And yet, the dark atmosphere of the movie is also reflected in the presentation. Some people will say that it's OK since the pictures adequately re-create the era and the society at the time, but let's not forget that we're talking here about a children's movie. In such a case, the dark (and not much cared over) images become depressing, boring and not much enjoyable to watch.There's also a cruel lack of lively songs, which looks pretty bad for an institution like Disney. The songs go so much unnoticed that it becomes almost impossible to remember their titles.There are some great moments however. The teaching sessions were Wart becomes an animal, accompanied by either Merlin or Archimedes, are entertaining and they lead to exciting and dangerous moments, where there's no lack of thrills for nobody. The best moment remains the magical duel between Merlin and the witch Madame Mim (Martha Wentworth), where the two opponents ceaselessly change themselves into different animals and give a high-level spectacle of which we are the lucky spectators.The three main characters are also unforgettable. Wart's psychological evolution is well tangible. We can see at the beginning that he is puny, clumsy and naive, but also full of potential. And as he learns, he finds the courage to confront his adoptive tutor Sir Ector (Sebastian Cabot) and even his powerful teacher Merlin.The magician himself is presented as somebody who is wise, but also absent-minded, which renders him quite funny. Unfortunately, he often loses himself into his futuristic anticipations, which leads to pathetic anachronisms and uninteresting discussions.Archimedes is also intelligent and resourceful, but he is also touchy, cynical and often very grumpy. It means that we have as many reasons to like him as we have to hate him. And unlike Merlin, Archimedes prefers to keep both feet on the present ground, rather than thinking about the future.'The Sword in the Stone' is not one of the greatest movies of Disney's career, but it nevertheless remains an instructive and funny picture, the kind of work that only Walt and his partners can make.
The 18th animated Disney classic is among the most hilarious of all time. It was never very popular, which is too bad, because it deserves to be more known. However, like other forgotten Disney classics, it has been winning a legion of fans with time.'The Sword in the Stone' is almost at the same level of the 1960's and 1970's Disney classics when it comes to artwork. It was one of the last movies with the participation of Walt Disney himself.'The Sword in the Stone' is Disney's version of the famous King Arthur's story. Disney tells this story with its personal touch and classic humor.I don't know if the Disney version is totally faithful to the real story, but that's not the point.Arthur, called 'Wart' by Sir Ector (his adoptive father) and Kay (Sir Ector's son), is overworked and humiliated by them both. 'Wart' is almost like a 'Cinderella boy'. But despite these problems, he remains optimistic and still dreams about being a great warrior and a knight's squire. Somehow 'Wart' was the inspiration for the character Taran from 'The Black Cauldron'.In the meantime, he meets the powerful but clumsy and hilarious wizard Merlin, who wants to give him education and culture. Merlin believes that pure strength means nothing when a person has no brain.Together, Merlin and 'Wart' live great adventures, funny moments and Merlin teaches everything he knows to 'Wart'. We mustn't forget the owl Archimedes too. The owl, as you know, is usually «the fountain of knowledge» on cartoons.Archimedes is wise, intelligent, clever but also very lazy, very confident, grumpy and has a strong personality. That's what makes him so funny. In fact, both Merlin and Archimedes are a comic relief.This film might take place in medieval times (which year is unknown). But it is one the funniest Disney classics ever, like 'Pinocchio', 'Aladdin', 'Robin Hood' and 'The Aristocats'.It has lots of hilarious moments which can make one get into uncontrollable laughter.Let me mention some of them: the scenes with Merlin and the Granny Squirrel; the scene when the dishes wash themselves and Sir Ector and Kay get a 'bath'; the scene when Kay brutally crashes with the castle's oldest tower; the part when the plane model gets stuck on Merlin's beird and Archimedes laughs so hysterically that he almost can't breathe; that part when Archimedes nearly shrinks inside his little house; the moments with the sugarpot...I could go on, but it would take forever because there are so many hilarious moments.The songs are clever and enjoyable, such as 'The Sword in the Stone', 'That's what makes the world go round' and especially 'Higitus Figitus', my personal favorite.I like this movie and I've gotta say that humor is, without a doubt, the strongest attribute of this movie.This should definitely be on Top 250.
Well, I wouldn't call this one a masterpiece. Considering everything the Arthurian legends engenders, there was a LOT left out of this one. The Merlin is downsized to something which strikingly resembles the possible progenitor to the blue genie in later Aladin, but he's still quite endearing. Actually, Archimedes is the real star of this work, but that's okay, too.The story was not ground-breaking, but does maintain the ability to remain mildly amusing, peppered throughout with some truly comedic moments (usually by way of exchanges between Archimedes and the Merlin).Some of the original Arthurian characters are included, lending at least something to the story that isn't a talking animal, or some other Disneyism, and I found this to be very enjoyable.Comedy, rather than story or character, is the main drive behind this one, and as such, it rates a 6.6/10 from...the Fiend :.
'The Sword in the Stone' is mostly entertaining just for some of the gags that Merlin plays (I still think that the Wizard Blizzard was pretty neat). Otherwise, it is a Disney movie; why do the learned scientific types always have to be so absent-minded? It's hard for me to think about the King Arthur legend without thinking of 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail'. But overall, I think that the movie isn't hurting anything.I actually have envisioned a version of this movie with characters from '60s TV shows. Jeannie ('I Dream of Jeannie') is Merlin; Maj. Nelson ('IDOJ') is Arthur; Samantha ('Bewitched') is Archimedes; Dr. Bellows ('IDOJ') is Sir Ector; Darrin ('Bewitched') and Maj. Healey ('IDOJ') are both Kay; Amanda Bellows ('IDOJ') is the scullery maid; and Gen. Peterson ('IDOJ') is Pelinore. Characters from 'Gilligan's Island', 'The Beverly Hillbillies', 'Batman' and 'The Flying Nun' could probably appear somewhere.Bermuda. How'd he get there without disappearing in the Bermuda Triangle?
In medieval England, a magic wizard named Merlin meets up with a scrawny young boy named Arthur, who has been nicknamed Wart by his family. Merlin knows that the boy has a great future ahead of him, so he starts schooling the boy. He is turned into a fish, a squirrel, and a bird to learn about what life is like for them. He later meets Merlin's enemy, a ugly old witch named Madame Mim, and watches Merlin beat Mim in a wizard's duel. While at a jousting tournament, Arthur notices that a sword has been embedded in a stone. When he pulls it out, he learns that it is a magic sword and that whoever pulls it out would be named King of England.The legend of King Arthur has been retold many times, and Disney's animated musical THE SWORD IN THE STONE is one of the best. The Sherman Brothers have provided excellent musical scores for many Disney films, and this is one of their best. The 'wizard's duel' between Merlin and Madame Mim is one of Disney's most memorable scenes. This magical film is fun for families everywhere! 10/10.
Let's go back to the early 1960s. The last time Walt Disney tried to be ambitious was with 1959's 'Sleeping Beauty', and that film was a big budgeted misfire that was popular, but it couldn't recoup the insanely high production costs. Walt Disney was shattered once again like he was when World War II brought the studio to its knees. Disney began losing interest in animation, and after a disastrous pitch for 'Chanticleer' (which was supposed to be the next Disney animated film), Disney was ready to dump it for good. Instead, a quickly-produced adaptation of T.H. White's 'The Sword in the Stone' was put into production.This time, one director (Wolfgang Rietherman) handled the film and it was produced for a cheap amount of money. The Xerography used for the previous film, 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians', was used once again despite the fact that Walt hated it. This was not a film that the Disney team had a lot of fun with, and one can easily tell.The story is a hodgepodge, it's just a bunch of episodes of Merlin teaching some lessons to the young King Arthur. They're loosely strung together and it's inconsistent. The story is shallow, and it's ending comes out of nowhere. It does all it can to wade through 79 minutes of film. Fortunately, the film is entertaining. The characters are likable and endearing. There's a spectacular scene where Merlin and the villainous Mad Madam Mim engage in a Wizard's Duel. There are funny bits like a Wile E. Coyote-style wolf trying to eat Arthur and failing miserably at it. A scene where Merlin and Arthur turn into fish is amusing, along with a scene where they are squirrels.The songs are alright as well. 'That's What Make's The World Go 'Round' is probably the centerpiece, while 'Higgitus Figgitus' is a real delight. Madam Mim's song is not as great, unfortunately. The opening song is also worthy. So far, there's a weak story, entertaining moments, and good songs. What else? The animation. While it's not bad, the Xerox style does not suit the medieval setting. It fit 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians'' modern setting very well, but here, not so well.'The Sword in the Stone' is not a bad film, but it has a weak story but it's saved by strong moments, a great soundtrack, endearing characters and it's overall sense of fun. It's one of the more 'fun to watch' Disney films, but it's not serious masterpiece. Disney never really had confidence in the film after its tepid box office performance, and it was one of the first Disney films on home video at a time when they were starting to roll out the serious classics for the first time. They still re-issue the film on home video formats, because it somewhat sells well. Overall, not bad but not great. Entertaining, though.An 8.5 out of 10.
Disney made this animated film in 1963. 'The Sword in the Stone' is an animated film based loosely on the King Arthur tale. We all know about the sword Excalibur and how King Arthur was able to get it out. This movie pretty much shows it in exactly this way, but with more Disney fun!I've never seen this before, although I've seen the end of it on the Old Disney Channel back in 1997. Yeah, it looked good, but note the modern flair this movie had: after the door was shut, Merlin mentioned about how great movies are - like television, but without any commercials!!!!! Don't get me wrong; I remembered that part!But still, this should be worth watching somehow.'The Sword in the Stone' is great Disney fare for everyone.10/10
''The Sword in the Stone'''is one of the classics from Disney that I watched when I was a kid and probably the first movie I saw about the Arthur's and Merlin's stories. Wart is a young boy who wants to be a knight's squire. During a hunting trip,Wart meets Merlin, a great and powerful wizard who sees in the boy the chance to give a great education. Wart learns many of the truths of life with Merlin when he become different types of animals. The problem is when Wart makes contact with the evil witch Madam Mim, who will fight against Merlin in a witch/sorceress battle.Ps:I think it is pretty obvious to say that Wart will pulls the famous sword in the stone out of it, and will become the future King of England, thanks to his good,loyal and brave heart.
Disney's version of how the young Arthur could become the king of England might not have any real plot, since it's based on different adventures of Arthur and Merlin. But many different cute adventures make a really cute movie, and the formula sure works for me.When the king of England (probably Arthur's father Uther) dies, there's no one to inherit his thrown. But there's a sword in a stone in a churchyard in London, and the one, who can pull the sword out of the stone, is the right heir to the king's thrown and the next king of England. But though many men try, no one is able to pull the sword out of the stone. The sword in the stone is forgotten, and England has to do without a king for many years.Meanwhile, the orphan boy Arthur (who's actually the illegitimate son of the late king Uther and the lady Igraine, though that's of course not mentioned in this movie) has been adopted by Sir Ector, a local nobleman, and grows up in Sir Ector's castle. But alas, Sir Ector openly prefers his own son, Kay, over his adoptive son, and Arthur, who's almost always called 'Wart', is merely the lousiest of the servants in the castle. But when Arthur is about twelve years old, his life takes a turn for the better, when he meets the wizard Merlin and his owl Archimedes. Merlin knows that Arthur will become something special one day, so he starts giving him an education. Sir Ector doesn't like that, but he's too afraid of Merlin's magic to really defy him. During a trip to London, Arthur finally finds out who he is. He discovers the sword in the stone and pulls it out. Amazed by this boy being able to do something so many grown men have failed to do, the people immediately make young Arthur their new king, and Sir Ector and his son Kay regret how badly they have treated 'Wart'. But only being around twelve years old, Arthur needs the wise Merlin beside him to lead the kingdom.
According to my dear ol' dad, this is the very first movie I ever watched, and what a great introduction to the world of film it was! I enjoy this as much now as ever, in fact I still laugh out loud fairly often...mostly at Archimedes the Owl, he was a hoot! (Pun intended). Even after all these years, I could still sing along to many of the songs! Many of the jokes will fly right past children, and I found myself laughing at every single thing Merlin said referring to present times. The lines he has at the end of the film are suitably hilarious, and a great way to end a great Disney film! For all of us that grew up with this movie, it is a classic that the youngins can still enjoy today!7/10
This movie is another proof of the high quality of the classic Disney films. Today feature films are quite funny too... but they based mostly on simple, crude jokes and spoofing of other topical movies (remember the bullet time-spoof in 'Shrek'). There is no substance to think about in it. You can see them, laughing about them...and forgot them almost completely a few years later. Who will remember, i.e., 'Ice Age' or 'Madagascar' in 40, 50 or 60 years? The old Disney classics are different, there are timeless! 'The Sword in the Stone' contains a lot of joyful gags too, but no gag stands above the characters, no joke was made only to fill a hole in the plot. The story, the plot, and the characters are primary. And Disney add not only joyful gags. As Walt himself once said: 'For every laugh, there should be a tear.' Disney take children always quite seriously, and a lot of his early films contains a lesson for life, sometimes the lesson can be very sad and cruel, like in 'Bambi', sometimes lesser sad, like in 'The Sword in the Stone'... but can anybody forget the cute little girl squirrel, that was left by Wart, desperately crying and with a broken heart? And Merlin's closing words about love: 'Well, yes, in its own way... yes, I'd say it's the most powerful force on Earth'!This is one of the main ingredient of the famous Disney Magic: Joy and tragedy! Another is the art of hand drawn animation. The quality of the animation went downwards at Disney after WW-II too, slowly, but surely. But in 1963 cel-animation was still on a high level. Not so good as in the golden Era, when 'Fantasia', 'Pinocchio' or especially 'Bambi' set the utmost high standards of perfectionism, but quite better than in 'Hercules', 'The Lion King' or 'The Rescuers down under'. 7 of 10 stars for 'The Sword in the Stone'! It is not the best of all Disney films, but quite better and deeper than the most of the modern CGI movies!
I used to watch the Sword in the Stone quite a number of times as a kid, and I know why later on in my years. It's actually quite a fun little movie considering its a quasi-history lesson on how Arthur (aka 'Wart') became King of England. It includes Merlin, and his 'educated Owl' Archamedes, and a whole lot of wacky adventures trying to get Arthur, who can't read or write, into a mode of thought higher than how he's been raised. For a Disney film, as well, it's also quite the quotable film at times, with some lines and situations still sticking out in my mind years later. For example, the sequence involving Arthur and Merlin as squirrels in the trees, and a small lesson in love (or lack thereof) a lady squirrel presents in the face of danger. Or the story involving Arthur as a bird, trapped in the clutches of Madamn Mim (maybe one of the funniest sequences in any Disney movie).So, as one can figure from what I've described (if you haven't seen the film yet), it's fairly over-the-top, loaded with silly-songs (one of which a true charmer involving Merlin's proclivity for organizing a packing up of his house) and little lessons for kids. But it actually is also funny for adults too, I'd guess, or at least funny to watch along with the kids. It may not be in the absolute peek of the period in Disney films (one may try to look to the Jungle Book or Winnie the Pooh for that, or the underrated Aristocats), however I sometimes come back to this film in my mind. It has a catchy attitude that made being in the 'dark ages' as fun as possible- Archamedes in particular is maybe one of the great side-characters in any Disney film.Alakazam!
I'm really not much of a Disney fan, and a lot of their films I find are sentimental rubbish, to put it bluntly. This, however, is different. I remember watching this when I was little and finding it hilarious. I hadn't watched it for years until recently when my younger siblings borrowed some videos from a friend. I still find it funny. The animation's nothing amazing, it's done more or less in the style of 101 Dalmations, and the storyline is basic King Arthur stuff (but I do like King Arthur stories anyway). It's the humour that really makes it memorable and charming. The characters have personality, there are no bimbo princesses or princes, and I find myself warming greatly to Merlin and Arthur and even grumpy Archimedes. Well worth watching.
If you have ever wanted to see the story of young King Arthur pull the sword Excalibur out of the stone, this is quite an interesting idea of what it was like. Well, mainly focusing on his adventures before the sword, and then becoming King. Basically Merlin the Wizard and Archimedes the Owl are expecting someone important, and they are right. They make friends with a young 12 year old boy named Arthur, or 'Wart' to his guardians. Basically the rest of the film, apart from near the end obviously is Arthur and Merlin turning into animals and having adventures, e.g. battling big sharp-teethed fish, having squirrels fall in love and flying as a bird. It's only near the end that Arthur comes across the once attempted sword and pulls it out, after so many people trying, so this means he is King. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for George Bruns. Worth watching!
One of the most imaginative of Disney's animated films and most likely, unfortunately, one of the least known. There is little doubt in my mind, though, that Disney does not get much better than this. The Sword in the Stone is sheer unadulterated good old fashioned cartoon banter. Before criticising this under-watched, perfectly drawn piece of Disney magic, I would advise interested parties to refer to the classic books by T.H.White, and THEN attempt to accuse the film of being low-brow...if you can. To and fro, stop and go, that's what makes the world go round! Profound lyrics, no? Give it a go, watch it, and if you don't like it - 'Quiet Archimedes or I'll turn ye into a human!!'
There's very little story, and this young boy is an uninteresting one, which he should not be when you think about it. The usage of what some (not me, mind you, Christian conservatives) would call 'Jesus light' looks a tad ridiculous. Nevertheless, the film is occasionally amusing (if just a bit repetitive), and the animation is somewhat of a sight.The post-metamorphosis sequences are the greatest ones. As a fish this kid is much more enjoyable than as a boy. The animal characters have much more... character than the humans; just look at the fat-as-- uh, beaver-like squirrel or the pike (was it?). The most famous scene, the duel, is a good one, likewise, and the 'magical' sequences are that indeed. Call me a sap, but I am touched by the it'll-never-happen squirrel love story. The best part of the film and bloody poignant stuff!Incidentally, the Finnish translation and - even more so - the dubbing are at times very poor - something unusual for a Disney animation. Especially the songs leave a bland mark. Whether that is the case with the original English version, I do not know (though I will). So actually, never mind that 'incidentally'; this is terribly relevant when it comes to my conception of the film.
I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities. The animation in My opinion was crisp, clean, and really clear. Not to mention beautiful! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love. in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen. In fact, The things that goes on in this series' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today!
This is one of my all time favorite Disney films. The lyrics of the songs are clever and memorable. Who can forget 'Hockety Pockety Wockey Wack?' The characters are also very entertaining. The idea of Merlin as a clutz is unique to this version of the story. Archimedes also offers several laughs.Though there isn't much of a plot, the development of character makes this film very entertaining. My four year old sister loved the film. She has already watched it at least a dozen times, and I only checked it out from the library three days ago. Modern Disney bores her. I've found that young children can't sit through 'Beauty and the Beast' or 'Mulan.' This older style of Disney catches attention and entertains.
Plain and simple, I just watch this movie to laugh at the horrendously stupid things little Arthur does being such a simpleton.  He is weak, scrawny, and naive-a combination that only results in laughs.  I mean when he first introduces himself: 'My real name is Arthur, but everyone calls me Wart.'  He doesn't even get the fact that people are making fun of him. Like everyone else says it is different from other Disney movies, but I like it for its unique character.  The animation is not done as well as some of the other disney movies, but then people who watch this movie, watch it for the sake of reminiscing about their childhood, or for comic relief.
'The Sword in the Stone' is a nice animation movie from Disney which contains all the nice Disney elements but it lacks a real story. In fact, there is no story at all. The movie is filled with little episodes that are fun to watch but have not much to do with the actual story that must be about Merlin the wizard (voice by Karl Swenson) and how he educates the boy named Arthur (voice by Rickie Sorensen), who will be King Arthur one day. The way Disney presents the story here I think it could be told in ten minutes or less.Still, I enjoyed the movie enough. Although it is probably one of the weakest Disney movies I have seen it has its great moments. There are sequences where Merlin changes himself and Arthur into animals and although they plat a little predictable they are pretty funny as well. One of the problems is that these sequences play on forever until it is not funny anymore. There are little lessons for Arthur here but we see it simply because otherwise the movie would be too short.There is a good chance you will be disappointed. Compared to the very early Disney animated features this could be called bad. If you don't expect too much there is a good chance you will love some of the moments, and at least the animation itself which is great once again. There is a sequence with squirrels and I think that would have made a great animated short movie on its own. That is what 'The Sword in the Stone' basically is, a couple of good and nice short movies played back to back.
This isn't usually counted as being one of the top-ranking Disney films, but I insist on not being snobbish in this list, and remembering the films that brought me joy as a kid.  Wart gets to be a squirrel, a bird and a fish during this film which plays fast and loose with Arthurian legend.  Merlin is great, and his battle with Madam Mim the stuff of legend.  It's not big, it's not clever, but it is fun!
This Disney film, along with Robin Hood, is one of my fondest movie memories. The animation is masterful and the script is witty. The songs aren't fantastic but the wonderful characters are so vivid and magical that it makes up for it ten-fold.Merlin is a great character, as is his pet owl Archimedes. However, it is with Mad Madame Mim that we find the majority of our laughs. Such a wonderful Disney Villain, more wicked than Hook or Cruella, but funnier than the March Hare. The Wizard's duel at the end of the film is one of Disney's greatest triumphs.Also, look out for the scene with the squirrels. It's a very funny scene, yet ends with a heart-wrenching goodbye. It's enough to bring tears to your eyes (until you realise that it's just a cartoon!)Well, hats off to Disney on this one. I am biased as I grew up with it, but I am so glad I did. You may not love it like I do, but it really is worth the viewing.Forever a classic!
Ah, the memories.I, as many of the children of my generation, saw *all* the Disney classics the way they were meant to be seen - on the big screen, with hundreds of little kids (like myself) hollering and buying Disney figures, running up and down the aisles, and generally, well, being just kids. It wasn't so long ago, so don't snicker. I am merely 28 years old. But there were a couple of good things about not having DVD players or the like; one of them, the whole Sunday afternoon experience of going to the movies.I do remember my parents' driving my cousins, my sister and myself every time one of Disney's classics were shown. There was this huge movie house which resembled Disneyland's Castle around here, and they used to play Disney-only features. Imagine that. A giant movie theatre (where now an 8 -yes, EIGHT- screen cineplex stands) exclusively for Disney made movies. But I digress.Enter 'The Sword in the Stone'. Since I thought it might be a good idea to revisit all my childhood movies, and try to understand what I liked about them some 23 years ago, I got a couple of them. I sat and watched this movie. Then it came to me. It was so clear.What we used to call 'The Disney Magic' is no magic at all. It's actually some content, intelligently mixed in with the humour and animation. It really seems to me Walt Disney had a hand in all of this, if just because every movie made by him has it. It's simple, actually. Each one of his film simply praises human values in a very low-key way. This movie, for example, praised education, courage, and will. Young Wart's journey from a little orphan kid to the Kingdom of England is full of very low key examples of Merlin conquering evil by the way of knowledge.Each Disney film praises, in some way or another, values that we can relate to nowadays. And that's the reason so many of his films are now classics in my book - just because I'd like my own kids to grow up learning that truth can beat a dragon, and knowledge can make you a king.
I like this Disney movie very much.  But there sems to be something missing. It didn't seem to be as good as the rest of the Disney films were.  I don't know.  I mean there are some great scenes, and funny line, but something is missing.
'The Sword in the Stone' is a good effort from the Disney animation studio. For some reason, it just felt a little different from some of the other Disney classics. The movie didn't have as many songs, and I feel that is a major characteristic of the early Disney animated classics. I think would have preferred more songs. Character development was good in the movie. It was fun to watch Merlin's character and listen to him talk of events in the future. Overall, this movie just seemed average when compared to the other Disney classics. It almost felt like they wanted to do a King Arthur cartoon, but no one really wanted to put a lot of effort into it. The story of Arthur saves the movie however, as his story has always been one the world has been interested in.
Sword in the Stone is one of the few Disney movies that you will enjoy the older you get. The subtle sarcasm and slight cynicism of Merlin and Archimedes make the film enjoyable for the older audience. Also refreshing is the lack of a love story which often only distorts the story and mushes things up. Enjoyable and catchy songs make this fun for all.
The Sword In The Stone is 'Pure Disney Gold'- New York Times. This is a classic tale full of humor and music. Its about the journey of young King Arthur. There are funny characters and a decent plot. Its one of Walt Disney's Best.
I recently purchased this movie on DVD because of the fond childhood memories I had of it, and because the DVD packaging mentioned it had been remastered into Dolby Digital 5.1 - Boy, was I disappointed!The remastering of the color of this 1963 movie is excellent; however, it does not seem to be available in 'Widescreen' format, only in 'Fullscreen'.It was the audio quality that truly disappointed me, since the Dolby Digital 5.1 is rather poor, with no use whatsoever of the two back speakers, and should therefore be labeled more as Dolby Digital 2.1.I feel that this is basically a wonderful cartoon that needs an over-haul; in its present form, it is a little on the dull side. That could be changed by using some of today's technology, in animation, sound and special effects, even if it meant tampering a little with the syncronization of the voices, so that the movement of the character's mouths were more in line with today's Disney standards...!Of course, a purist might want to leave it 'as is'...
The 90 minute cartoon is in fact the first chapter of T.H. White's novel The Once and Future King. Made for the kids, Disney does it again taking a classic story and adding fictional animal characters that can talk. Still, Disney remains loyal to the story by keeping many of the characters in the story including Kay, Sr. Pellinoire, and Sir Ector.Worth watching twice with the family. An animated classic
Well, The Sword in the Stone doesn't live up to Disney's standards, still it is much fun... especially for kids who tend to like anything animated whether good or bad. The animation, again- while not on Disney's high standards is still very entertaining. In fact this movie is very laid back, it doesn't demand much though or depth. Humor is it's high point, Merlin is one wacky wizard and Wart (aka Arthur) is very lovable. The squirrel scene is very cute, as is the fish scene. Madame Mim clearly isn't one of Disney's scariest villains, in fact I wouldn't even really call her a villain. Merlin and Wart encounter her only once, still she is very entertaining and funny, kid will love her. And chicken pox- what a way to be defeated. All in all the Sword in the Stone is a very fun family film. Kids will love it, though adults may think it's a tad too childish. Me, being a Disney fan didn't mind the childish manner of it- in fact that's one of the things that made this movie more enjoyable. Definitely a keeper, though perhaps not in the top 10 list. Very fun film.
Disney`s 'The sword in the stone' is based on the legend of Arthur and the sword in the stone.The drawings are as always good in this Disney-film, but it isn`t my favorite Disney-film.  It has good atmosphere, good music and plenty of magic to keep your interest, and the movie is definitely worth seeing at least once if you are a Disney-fan. 8/10
Sword in the Stone is my absolute favorite Disney movie.  It's not as schmaltzy as the other Disney cartoons, mainly because the plot isn't solely about the main characters falling in love.  My favorite scenes include the 'Stop and Go' song, the fight between Merlin and his rival, and any scene with Archimedes (Merlin's cynical sidekick).  If you want a Disney movie without the typical Disney plot, check this one out.
Walt Disney the film-maker didn't fritter away the 1960s entirely - not with `One Hundred and One Dalmatians' and `Mary Poppins' - but he was no more than a shadow of the artist he had been in the 1930s and early 1940s.  More than any other animated film he made this one fails to live up to his standards.  He made nothing so nothingy.  `Peter Pan' had been bland, but not THIS bland.  `Alice in Wonderland' had been bad, but its badness was the badness of excess - in any event, it looked good and had some touches that make it worth watching.  Apart from some accomplished animation there's no evidence that `The Sword in the Stone' even came from the same studio.Writer Bill Peet's approach is disastrous - although I admit it feels incongruous to use such strong language for a film so uniformly unmemorable. The Arthurian legend, however you slice it, is a fantasy.  This treatment of the fantasy offers no magic, no buzz, no confection, no charm.  Peet is studiously detached from his material.  Why he was detached, I have no idea. He doesn't distance himself from Arthuriana in order to do anything WITH it, in the way Monty Python did.  Here we have a film that has sold its soul - or at least its spirit - and gotten nothing in return.The songs might as well not be there, not that they make enough of an impression to do any harm, the story goes all over the place without going anywhere, the art directors had no very strong ideas - how many ways can I say it?  Not that it would even be worth saying if the film hadn't had Disney's stable of animators working on it, turning out their usual good work and struggling to make an impression.  They come close to doing so in the magical duel at the end.  But even here, the dogged presentation, the way everything is telegraphed in advance, undercuts their efforts.No-one has explained to my satisfaction what happened to the old (or rather the young) Walt Disney.  So - what happened to him?
This is my favorite Disney animated feature film(followed by Hurcules). If you haven't seen it, you are a fool. It is great and something about it is really good. I like that owl, ummmm...achemides. And that song-- higgitus figgitus biggitus mum, preste digittarium! Ha Ha Ha!
This very nice Disney Classic was based on the children's novel by TH White. This was not yet that very well-known, heavy novel titled 'the Once and Future King' that so many later movies were based upon, but the lighthearted earlier version. Many agreed that the later novel has disfigured the first, so that we may be thankful for the Disney version!Though it does not quite follow the book (this is hardly possible, at times) it is a very good version as animated movies go. Not tedious, though of an age where children were meant to learn something from a movie...A collectors item!
Everything is just right! The plot, the drawings, the animations, the music. It couldn't be done any better!
I loved the dubbing, he used the accent associated with children's language for Mogli, it was adorable, not cute... He talks a lot like my godfather's daughter, 3 years old... Very cute... And the little song, what a hell... 'I use what I need. Only what is necessary. The extraordinary is too much. I say what is necessary. Only what is necessary. That is why I live this life in peace.'
I don't remember whether I watched it as a kid, but these days I always put it off cause I didn't think I'd find it fun. And then I did. It's really funny, warm, with an incredible soundtrack too, I really loved it.
I grew up with this movie, and I still love it. Here's why:1. The animation, done by six of Disney's Nine Old Men, is absolutely gorgeous and wonderfully crafted. Every background shows a lot of depth, detail and richness, and all the character movements are extremely fluid and expressive. Bonus points for all of it being hand-drawn!2. So many great, enjoyable characters! Mowgli the Man-Cub is such a charming, irresistible boy. Baloo the Bear is so humorous and fun-loving, how can anyone not love him? Bagheera the Panther is very appealingly wise, loyal and reasonable. King Louie the Orangutan is so unbelievably fun and entertaining, that he's one of the most unforgettable characters in the movie. And of course, Shere Khan the Tiger is a very memorable villain, with a lot of personality!3. Great voice-acting! Bruce Reitherman's energetic, happy-go-lucky voice performance as Mowgli was excellent. Phil Harris really brought out the enjoyable laid-back nature in Baloo. Sebastian Cabot was appropriately sarcastic and strict as Bagheera. Sterling Holloway (the original voice of Winnie the Pooh) was definitely the right choice for Kaa the Snake, because he could really capture that 'sneaky snake' vibe in his performance. George Sanders did a fantastic job voicing Shere Khan, and really brought out the beast in him. Louis Prima really showed his trademark wacky and fun attitude as the voice of King Louie.3. The music! George Bruns's magnificent score is VERY Indian-sounding and really depicts the mood in every scene. Also, all the songs are astoundingly catchy to listen to (especially Baloo and Mowgli's iconic song 'The Bare Necessities' and King Louie's delightfully jazzy 'I Wanna Be Like You').4. So many well-timed funny moments, such as Kaa falling out of the tree!5. The final battle is epic, especially the part where Mowgli scares off Shere Khan by tying a flaming branch to his tail.6. A wonderful ending, in which Mowgli finally decides to go to the Man Village, where he rightfully belongs.In short, this movie is an absolute masterpiece! It's a shame that Disney himself died before the movie was released and never got to see it for himself. But if only he'd hung for 1 more year, he'd have been very proud of this movie.
Mogli, Menino Lobo is another of Walt Disney's animations that mark generations. The animation features exotic, outgoing and sympathetic characters with the audience. And of course, the songs like 'Somente o Necessário' have light lyrics and a cheerful rhythm, which matches the animation.Film seen on May 3, 2021.
If I didn't mention that I saw a surprising lack of classic Disney films as a kid in my Snow White review, this would be a good time to bring it up, because this is one that I watched a hell of a lot when I was eight or so. So remember the nostalgia goggles might be on a bit with this one.I enjoyed it much more than Snow White, because the characters, soundtrack, and voice acting are a huge improvement across the board. I don't think I could recall a single voice in Snow White other than maybe the evil queen, the characters are literally all defined by their names and not much else, and all but one of the songs has completely left my mind by now.There's a huge step up here, because the casting is perfect, every character is so memorable, and the soundtrack's been engraved in my mind ever since I first watched it.It also struck me that Mowgli could easily come across as really, really annoying at the start of the film, but he doesn't because his behaviour is easily understandable. Because Bagheera is frankly way too bossy.I can't say anything improved much on the directing front, there isn't all that much imagination to the cinematography, and for as much as I enjoyed it, it is still rather simple, but the fact is I still enjoyed it.I also enjoyed picking up on the fact that King Louie is very much into dominatrixes.
In recent years, Disney has become associated with epic-scale storytelling with films like Frozen and The Lion King - big stories, big scenery, big songs. This film - the last Walt Disney personally supervised - is much more small-scale. It has a simple plot - a panther attempts to return a boy raised by wolves to his own kind before he draws the attention of a human-hating tiger. And yet, that thin premise becomes a clothesline from which to hang some utterly delightful characters - a stuffy elephant General, a scat-singing monkey king, a hypnotic snake, and the aforementioned tiger, who is clearly the template for the later villain Scar. And then, there's the heart of the film - the laid-back, hippie/beatnik bear Baloo and the uptight panther Bagheera. Their Odd Couple chemistry drives the film and provides plenty of laughs. No grand premise? No problem! Sure, there's some peripheral details that seem a tad dated - like the Beatle haircuts on the vultures and some of Baloo's hipster lingo - but that won't stop today's kids from enjoying the film. If this was a part of your childhood, you'll take great pleasure in revisiting it - and sharing it with the next generation.
I'm glad this was made when it was, it's practically a smorgasbord of voice and musical talent from the 60s. Sebastian Cabot and Phil Harris are both extremely memorable in their roles, and the soundtrack is one of Disney's best. Plus, it's worth it just to hear the voice of Winnie the Pooh say 'you have just sealed your doom.'
The wolves woulda ate that kid, and there's no bears in the jungle. plus everybody talks and sings. Animals can't do those.
Good watch, might watch again, and can recommend if you've seen any other version or are looking for a writing analysis.During a lot of the movie, I was kind of in nostalgia mode, remember things I saw / felt when I was a kid, just sort of enjoying the way back machine experience.It wasn't until almost the very last scene that it clicked how good the writing is in this. I know this is known for the excellent animation styling, the catchy tunes, and charming coming of age semantics, but this uses several strong formulas that have been used since Aesop's fables.And that's what made me realize the writing quality, I felt as if I was watching an on fable with moral lessons of consequence. Up until that point I was mentally preparing how this 1967 animation is actually a perfect metaphor for 2020 entitled child entering the real world: never being told no, even to the threat of great, potentially lethal, loss because even in the face of danger, they've been taught that they deserve, even in the logic that it can't be true on both sides though both believe that. Hmmm, that sounds a lot like religious war.Digressing back to the writing: Mowgli embodies naivety, narcissism, entitlement, whatever you would like to call as he's a victim / ward of extreme chances of compassion: he just happens to luck into survival wherever he goes. While Tarzan makes more sense, this is character development for the series of situations (each one their own potential fable) with the main character shifting to and fro from Bagera to Mowgli to Balloo, each one being taught lessons as the adventure continues.With the representation of the jungle and the adversities that Mowgli faces, Mowgli slowly learns what Bagera and Baloo both know: most people are only interested in their own interests, but sometimes those that have enough can be in a position to help others. The xenoism (racism) that Sher Khan has for Mowgli as a human is enough for these predators give up his companionship to help him to the man-village.The really odd lesson is that Mowgli embraces the self-interest needed in the jungle, despite dialogue to the contrary.
I haven't seen this since I was a kid, but still one of my favourite Disney movies.The story itself is pretty simple and straight forward, but enough to keep adults and children interested, but the rest is what makes this really special. The vivid colours, the zany characters and the toe tapping music that you can't help but sing along to, make it very entertaining and there's lots of humour too (more than I remembered).Whilst Sheer Khan's screen time is limited, his presence is felt and thanks to the reputation that precedes him, you already know what to expect by the time he eventually makes his first appearance on screen. One of my favourite Disney villains!
'This really not very good movie, at all.'Baby Tino reviews
This was one of my childhood favorites with easily recognizable voices - Phil Harris, Sebastian Cabot and Louis Prima!
The Jungle Book, one of Disney's ultimate classics, it has great characters, an awesome story and terrific animation. I'll admit it, I adore Disney movies, I could never choose just one Disney movie as my favorite, I love them all for so many different reasons. The Jungle Book is one of my fav's though, after buying the new release on DVD, I realized that I love this movie now more than ever. The reason that I think this movie is so wonderful is because of the characters, they just brought so much life to the story and really made this into a wonderful Disney classic.Mowgli is found in a basket as a baby in the deep jungles. Bagheera, the panther who discovers the boy, promptly takes him to a wolf who has just had cubs. She raises him along with her own cubs and Mowgli soon becomes well acquainted to jungle life. Mowgli is shown ten years later, visiting the wolves and getting his face licked eagerly when he arrives. That night, when the wolf tribe learns that Shere Khan, a man-eating tiger, has returned to the jungle, they realize that Mowgli must be taken to the man village, to protect him and those around him. Bagheera volunteers to escort him back. They leave that very night, but Mowgli is determined to stay in the jungle and loses Bagheera. Kaa, the hungry python, hypnotizes Mowgli into a deep and peaceful sleep, traps him tightly in his coils, and tries to devour him, but comically fails. The next morning, Mowgli tries to join the elephant patrol. Bagheera finds Mowgli and they argue; Mowgli runs away from Bagheera. The boy soon meets up with the fun-loving bear Baloo, who shows Mowgli the fun of having a care-free life and promises not to take him to the man village. Mowgli now wants to stay in the jungle more than ever. Shere Khan is after Mawgli though and won't rest 'till he kills him.Seriously, these are some of the most memorable characters in Disney history, we have Baloo, the care free party bear that just wants to have fun and only needs the 'bear' necessities of life. Begheera, a panther, that we've all known this kind of person, the one that just wants to get down to business and get as much done as quickly as possible, the party pooper, but deep down still has that heart. And one of Disney's most memorable villains of all time, Shere Khan, voiced by George Sanders, classy, sassy, menacing and vicious, I wouldn't be surprised if he was Scar's inspiration(the lion villain in The Lion King). If you haven't seen The Jungle Book, just buy it, believe me, it's worth the money. It's a classic fun animated film that I will love forever, still to this day I will always sing along to Bear Necessities, it's a good time.
10/10
This film is a great journey. We feel for the protagonist Mowgli who feels like a real person. The animation, music and movements are the best - who can forget 'The Bare Necessities'?
An entertaining watch.'The Jungle Book' is ideal family viewing, with its warm characters and catchy music. The plot isn't the deepest, shown by the lesser conclusion, though on the whole you can't help but smile throughout.Mowgli, despite being the protagonist, isn't one of the best; Bruce Reitherman is solid if unspectacular. The real stars of the film are Baloo (Phil Harris) and Bagheera (Sebastian Cabot), as well as side characters Kaa (Sterling Holloway) and King Louie (Louis Prima). George Sanders does good as Shere Khan, but it is surprising that he isn't seen until the final act.This arguably features Disney's greatest songs from this era of their productions. 'The Bare Necessities' is the standout for me, but 'Colonel Hathi's March' and 'I Wan'na Be like You' are terrific too. All sing-a-long worthy.The film is a largely just for fun 78 minutes, which is why the more serious finale doesn't avoid falling flat a little bit. It's still an OK ending, just not on the same level as what builds up to it in my opinion.Go watch!
I went to look for lists of great G rated movies for children, and was shocked that this wasn't on it. It's basically one of the best animated movies ever made. Great story, wonderful characters, good music, there's nothing it lacks. So to find it rated 7.6 by the IMDB faithful, shocked me.
Watch this movie. Buy it when you can. You and your children, and grandchildren, will watch it over, and over again, as we have.
This movie is very awesome. Is wonderful. The musics is very beautiful
A wonderful movie. Characters magnifics and musics too
If there's any film that truly marked the end of an era, it would have to be Walt Disney's film adaptation of The Jungle Book, as it was the last feature made under his involvement before he passed away almost a year before it was released. When it did come out, not only was it a critical and commercial success, but it helped spark the company to move forward in animated features, and more than 50 years later, it's gone through ups and downs to become the animation powerhouse we remember it as. But as for the movie itself, while its legacy remains as strong as ever, I wouldn't place it among the studio's strongest efforts.Now the film's main storyline involving the little human boy Mowgli being forced to go back to the man-village is well remembered, not because of Mowgli himself, but because of the bizarre characters he encounters along the way. From the snooty cynical panther Bagheera trying to do what's best for Mowgli in spite of their differences, to the upbeat slacker bear Baloo showing him the fun of living carefree in the jungle, to the crazed scat-singing King Louie, so on and so forth. What's funny is that these characters have been cherished by audiences for decades for their exuberant personalities and specified voice actors whom the crew based off to form them, from the hip Phil Harris, to the stuffy Sebastian Cabot, to the energetic Louis Prima, to even the pompous George Sanders. However, the one that people care about the least is Mowgli himself, as he's the most forgettable and annoying character in the whole feature due to his whiny demeanor and obnoxious personality. Similar to Walt's Alice in Wonderland from the 50s, the main protagonist is so bland that everyone else around them sticks out way better.Another strong quality of the feature are the musical numbers by the Sherman Brothers, as even the ones that don't carry the story forward are entertaining enough on their own. Some are utilized as character exposition like Colonel Haiti's March, I Wanna Be Like You, and My Own Home, whereas others show both the positive and negative sides of the jungle like Trust in Me and the Oscar-nominated Bare Necessities. Speaking of Bare Necessities, it was the only song written by Terry Gilkyson, as it spawned from an previous version of the movie that wasn't produced. That leads into how distinctive the movie was from the original Rudyard Kipling novel, down to where Walt told the head story writer on the film Larry Clemmons to not even read the book. Whether or not the original draft of the movie would have been better is certainly debatable, but Disney's reputation with their animated films has often consisted of going in altered directions from literature with their own twist, and considering this film was uncle Walt's swan song, none can deny the charm it displays with what it offers differently.As for the overall visuals, some of Walt's finest animators really put their 'all' into each character. Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston once stated that presenting emotions onto the fun loving Baloo proved to be difficult after Walt had died, and yet they managed to pull it off very well through subtle gestures. However, as fun and expressive as the animals are in the movie (seriously, Milt Kahl really hammed up Shere Kahn), Mowgli's more realistic animation is somewhat of a weird contrast, although that may be due to inconsistent rotoscoping and minimal facial variation. On the other hand, the backgrounds are gorgeously painted and composited within each shot, as they feel like 18th century British literature images brought to animation. In addition to some scratchy looking effect work that blend well with the environments, the Xerox-handled characters stick out distinctly from the backgrounds to give better contrast to their flat albeit bold features. Even though Walt himself never cared for the Xerox process, it certainly gave the animated movies for the next decade a unique style to say the least.So is The Jungle Book the greatest Disney film of all time? At least in my eyes, not exactly. However, even with its straight forward narrative, uninteresting main protagonist and deviations from its original source material, what the movie does offer on its own is very entertaining in its own right. Even for the next century, there's high doubt we'll forget about the charming animal characters and timeless songs that left an impact after a legend's death. Of course the Rudyard Kipling novel will go down in history as a classic too, but this feature will always remind the world why Walt Disney's passing meant so much to it.
A marvelous Disney animated feature inspired by Rudyard Kipling's 19th-century story collection, this is the tale of a boy who has been raised by wolves in the jungles of India. On a long journey to his village, the boy meets many animal characters in this exciting musical tale that might attract reluctant boys to musical films.
He well-worn tale of an abandoned infant, found and raised in the wild by a caring society of jungle creatures. In this specific case, it's a pack of wolves who look after the boy, though they quickly fade away when an elder insists the child (now half-grown) be returned to human civilization. A fatherly panther and carefree bear seem much more attached, guiding him through danger and belting out various songs as they progress through the densest bits of occupied brush. The pieces are here for another true Disney classic - excellent character designs, cheerful music, superb voice acting - but the plot is watery and overly simple, while the animation largely isn't up to snuff. In contrast to the studio's famous knack for experimentation, The Jungle Book's visuals are a dull, two-dimensional affair with all manner of seams and shortcuts left in view. It's a workmanlike effort, smooth but not especially interesting, which leans on the studio's name more than it adds to it.
This has probably the most perfect balance of story and soundtrack of any film I've ever seen - animated or otherwise. Adapting Rudyard Kipling's tale of 'Mowgli' the child abandoned in the Indian jungle, but rescued and raised by a family of wolves. 'Bagheera', the sagacious panther realises as the boy starts to grow to manhood, that he ought to return to his own kind but 'Baloo', the avuncular bear thinks otherwise and so takes our young man-cub on some fun adventures in the jungle - including some near-misses with the wonderfully menacing, sardonic tiger 'Shere Khan' and 'Kaa' the hypnotic python. The voice cast - especially Phil Harris as the bear and George Sanders as the tiger are great; Louis Prima as 'Louie' the King of the Apes provides us with one of the best songs ever to feature in a Disney film - and the Sherman brothers provide a great slew more of them for us to enjoy, too. The detail in the animations and the humour in the script are super - this really is a must watch.
The well-worn tale of an abandoned infant, found and raised in the wild by a caring society of jungle creatures. In this specific case, it's a pack of wolves who look after the boy, though they quickly fade away when an elder insists the child (now half-grown) be returned to human civilization. A fatherly panther and carefree bear seem much more attached, guiding him through danger and belting out various songs as they progress through the densest bits of occupied brush.The pieces are here for another true Disney classic - excellent character designs, cheerful music, superb voice acting - but the plot is watery and overly simple, while the animation largely isn't up to snuff. In contrast to the studio's famous knack for experimentation, The Jungle Book's visuals are a dull, two-dimensional affair with all manner of seams and shortcuts left in view. It's a workmanlike effort, smooth but not especially interesting, which leans on the studio's name more than it adds to it. One of Disney's vault-dwellers that probably looks better in the memory banks than it does on-screen.
I love this movie. Incredible, i can remember the first time i watched this movie
After watching the new Jungle book, I also wanted to remind myself the first movie. It is much less action (well the new one is kind of horror..). Definitely its is muh more suitable for children. More humorous and less serious, but the main story remains. And the great animation is admirable considering the age of the movie..
One is sure jungle book is a film for a very young kids and that is in one side good thing and in one side a bad thing,good since kids will enjoy this kind of film and have a great time watching it,film has good animation for that period and some good songs,but that is also downside i coudnt take this film seriously like i thought i would,jungle book isnt a film like aladdin,lion king or beauty and the beast that can be watched by whole families,this film is orientet just on 5 to 7 years olds and that will be good for them,but for me and others older people we should stick to some more serious thematic animated films and thank god there is enough of them but not this one unfortunetly
An absolute must for all children. Extremely funny and really well made. It's just as funny in Norwegian, Swedish and english
Basically just a kid wandering through the jungle endlessly and eventually finding a hot girl and presumably going to live with her. Don't waste your time.
The Jungle Book of 1967 version is my all time favorite Disney movie. The Music is sublime and the story is so funny and engaging. Until this movie came my favorite was The Lady and The Tramp, which I still adore. The time between The Jungle Book and mid 90s was kinda meh. I still loved the movies but none stood out. Thankfully mid 90s came and returned Disney to its glory years. 'I wanna be like you' with the great Louis Prima and Phil Harris is one of the funniest and most fetching songs in movie history! The voice actors are perfectly matched to the animals. This movie is perfection! If you haven't seen this movie; watch it! It's a must.
The Jungle Book is such a wonderful movie with a terrific cast and a great storyline!!! Such an overall amazing movie! It has love, laughter throughout, thrilling moments!!! A+++ Film
I used to watch this movie as a kid and needless to say I loved it and I still do now. Anyone who's read the book knows how far this movie strayed from the source material but in this case it turned out ok. The movie's about a kid named Mowgli who's taken in by a pack of wolves and becomes their adopted son. When word gets around that Shere Khan wants to kill the kid, his friend and mentor Bagheera the black panther offers to take him to the man village for his protection. Along the way they come across colorful characters such as the laid-back bear Baloo who introduces Mowgli to The Bare Necessities of life, a creepy snake named Kaa who wants to eat the boy, an orangutan named King Louie who desperately wants to learn how to make fire or 'man's red flower' in his words and some Buzzards based on the Beatles while also learning more about the jungle and themselves as well as if Mowgli should leave the jungle or not.I'm not sure what else there is to say about this movie other than this was the last movie Disney approved of and produced before his untimely death. He also told his staff not to read the book which normally i'm against but given how dark the original source material is this's an exception. The animation's a little scruffy like their later movies such as Robin Hood but it still looks good. The chemistry between the actors is believable and the pacing is wonderful. There's a balance between the light and dark moments from the songs to the final confrontation between Mowgli and Shere Khan. What more can I say? Check it out for yourself.
This classic Disney animation, based on the story by Rudyard Kipling, tells the story of Mowgli; a young boy who was raised by wolves after being found in the Indian jungle as a baby. He has been with the wolves for ten years when news of Shere Khan, the man-hating tiger's, return to that part of the jungle reaches the pack. It is decided that for Mowgli's safety he must be returned to the man-village; Bagheera, a panther, volunteers to take him. On the way they meet various dangers as well as some friendly creatures; most notably a sloth bear named Baloo.This film is a lot of fun with a combination of a simple but solid story; enjoyable characters and a variety of catchy songs. 'The Bare Necessities' and 'I Wanna Be Like You' may be the best known of the songs but the others are pretty good too; especially 'Trust In Me', sung by Kaa the hypnotic python. The story contains elements that are mildly threatening but these are balanced by the comedy and songs. The characters are great; I particularly liked Baloo and the way he was portrayed with a John Wayne like drawl; and Kaa's hypnotic stare and hissing voice. As one would expect from Disney the animation and character designs are all top notch. One or two gags might have dated a little... today's children might not spot that a quartet of vultures are based on The Beatles but that doesn't matter as the characters are still funny. Overall I'd definitely recommend this classic film to viewers of all ages.
The Jungle Book was the last movie produced by Walt Disney before his death. This movie is more colourful and more adapted for the vision of a child.
Infact this was the Walt Disney's intent.
When I was a kid I liked this movie. I liked the casting, I liked how they drew the jungle and of course, I liked the songs. The songs are made by Sherman brothers and Terry Gilkyson. Particularly 'Bare Necessities' was so catchy. I rewatched this movie, but sadly I didn't like it in the same way I usually did when I was a child. I found a lot of defects. There were a lot of recycled scenes and they were distracting. Sometimes this scenes are recycled from other Disney's movies.
The movie itself was ok, but I think the story could be deeper and more interesting. In the book Mougli and the other characters had more developments.
Now let's talk about what I loved of this movie. The first thing was the villain, because I liked how intimidating and elegant he was. The second thing I loved was Kaa who was funny and enjoyable. And the third thing I liked from the movie were the songs. Personally I recommend this movie even if it's not like the book. It kept me entertained as a little kid and I'm sure it will keep your kids entertained as well. Check it out and enjoy this musical adventure in the jungle.
Another Disney classic, this is a feel-good adventure that had me smiling the whole time, even though there are some moments of danger. The plot is a bit disjointed and episodic, but the songs and the general charm more than make up for that. The animation is fine, not as wonderful as in the early Golden Age of Disney but the character design is excellent. It has some of the more memorable Disney characters, and the animals are very expressive, as usual. This was the last movie in which Walt Disney was directly involved, and he died before it was finished. Rating: 9/10
The last film Disney supervised is one of the best.Killer soundtrack,excellent characters script faithful to Kipling's story.
'The Jungle Book' was the last film to be produced personally by Walt Disney, who died before it was completed. The story is loosely based on Rudyard Kipling's book of the same name. Mowgli, a young orphan boy, is found abandoned in the jungle and is raised by a pack of wolves. Some years later the wolves learn that Shere Khan, a tiger with a hatred of humans, has returned to their part of the jungle and decide that, for his own safety, Mowgli must return to the 'Man-Village'. The problem is, he wants to stay in the jungle, which is the only home he has ever known, with the animals he regards as his friends.Apart from Mowgli, the main characters are Bagheera the black panther and Baloo the bear. The wolves play a surprisingly small part in the film, and Shere Khan does not make an appearance until more than halfway through. Bagheera and Baloo are both friendly towards Mowgli and both believe that they have his best interests at heart, but they cannot agree what those interests are. Bagheera is portrayed by Sebastian Cabot as a serious-minded, rather fussy individual who sees it as his duty to make sure Mowgli leaves the jungle as soon as possible. Baloo, voiced by the comedian Phil Harris, is a laid-back layabout with a carefree attitude, believing that if he only has a little patience the good things of life will come to him without any effort on his part. Unlike Bagheera, he sympathises with Mowgli's wish to stay in the jungle.Along the way Mowgli, Bagheera and Baloo meet various other inhabitants of the jungle, including Colonel Hathi and his troop of military elephants, the treacherous snake Kaa, King Louie, the jazz-singing orang-utan King of the monkeys, and a flock of friendly vultures. (The original idea was to have the vultures voiced by The Beatles, and although this idea fell through the group's influence can be seen in the vultures' 'mop-top' hairstyles, or should that be feather-styles, and the fact that one of them has a marked Liverpudlian accent).The original scriptwriter Bill Peet wanted to follow Kipling's work closely and envisaged something dark and sinister in tone. Walt Disney, however, was dissatisfied with this concept, and he sacked from the project not only Peet but also the original composer Terry Gilkyson, whose songs had mostly been written to fit in with Peet's conception of the story. (One of Gilkyson's songs, the cheerful, upbeat 'The Bare Necessities', survived into the finished film). He brought in Larry Clemmons as his new writer and the Sherman Brothers as songwriters, and the result was the lighter and more family-friendly film we know today.This was one of my favourite films as a child. Indeed, I might even go so far as to say it was my favourite film as a child- certainly my favourite Disney cartoon, just ahead of '101 Dalmatians'. I always enjoyed films about animals, and I loved the dancing, singing bears and monkeys in this one. I knew all the words to 'The Bare Necessities' and 'I Wanna be Like You' (and probably to the elephants' marching song as well) off by heart. What I particularly liked about the film was its excellent balance of humour and drama- just enough thrills without ever getting too frightening for young children. Shere Khan, portrayed by George Sanders with a plummy, supercilious upper-class British voice, is a villain, but no more frightening than King Rat in a pantomime. He might want to eat Mowgli, but we know he will never stand a chance. It is notable that not a single character is killed throughout the film- even Shere Khan is merely driven off.The one thing I did not like about the film was the ending, which survived from Peet's original story. Mowgli leaves the jungle because he has fallen in love with a girl from the man-village. Even in my childhood this struck me as inappropriate; Mowgli is supposed to be a little boy, not an adult or even a teenager, and little boys generally do not fall in love with little girls.I recently watched the film again for the first time in many years- the BBC showed it on New Year's Day, having shown the 2016 live-action remake on Christmas Day- and I can report that my youthful enthusiasm for it remains intact. It remains one of the most magical children's films ever made, with a great story, superb characterisation, infectious songs, plenty of laughs and wonderful animation. Another great admirer of the film was Gregory Peck, at the time President of the Academy, who lobbied hard, but without success, to get it nominated as 'Best Picture'. I am not sure that it would have won my own personal 'Best Picture' award for 1967- that would probably have been 'The Graduate'- but it would certainly have been on my list of nominees. 10/10. (Yes, I know that objectively speaking the disappointing ending means that I should drop that to 9, but this is a film about which I am quite unable to be objective).A goof. I know that zoologically-inclined goof-spotters will have plenty of fun with this one- orangs aren't found in India, and so on- but I not too worried about these aspects as the world of the film is so obviously a magical fantasy land and not intended as a realistic recreation of the jungles of India. The name of the hero, however, is consistently mispronounced- Kipling indicated that the first syllable of 'Mowgli' should rhyme with 'cow', but here it is always pronounced to rhyme with 'slow'.
The Jungle Book is loosely based - I should say INSPIRED - by Rudyard Kipling's book, which I read as a kid. It tells the (fictitious) story of Mowgli, a 'mancub' who is raised in the jungle. When the ferocious and feared tiger Shere Khan threatens Mowgli's life, the wolf pack that raised Mowgli send him away to the man village. Of course, Mowgli doesn't want to return to his own kind.The movie is quite funny. Plenty of great laughs. I don't mind the storyline or the animation. And I quite enjoy the movie's songs. A great kids movie - that adults should enjoy.
I loce this film. Very fun to watch and cathcy sings. I love the backgrounds. It looks like how the golden age era backgrounds look. The character designs sre also pretty funky and I love that sketchy outline style as well.
Right, the little kid, he's in the jungle, right, but he knows the bear and the panther - they're good friends. BUT - it's dangerous, because you gotta watch out for the tiger and the snake. Now the reason is, they don't mind him, but he's human and he can make fire, they can't. That's why he's, sort of, in demand, (even though they've conquered the power of speech they can't make fire) but...and then, the orangutan gets him. Now, he's in trouble. But the bear puts coconuts on, and makes himself look like it then they fall off. They've gotta get away, but then he meets, like, a girl, and it's, and then they're not, y'know... - 9/5
This is undoubtedly one of Walt Disney's best classics (and the last one too), the story is very good, the characters are so, and the fact that the film is a bit educational (since the animals are very similar to real life). Highly recommend.
'The Jungle Book (1967)' has an odd sort of structure, or lack of it, which leads to a lax pace and utter absence of urgency that's evocative of an overall aimless experience. In the end, it's a somewhat lazy - and, indeed, somewhat lazily put-together (see the multiple pieces of readily apparent reused animation, sometimes just minutes apart) - slumber through extended but unexciting set-piece after set-piece that actually seems in dire need of a proper 'story' - that is, one with character arcs, proper conflict, rising tension and generally more traditional 'beats' - regardless of how closely it follows the events of its source material. The picture isn't devoid of merit, however, as it is a traditionally animated Disney movie and, no matter how stuffy or stiff it seems or how obvious its 'corner cutting' is, there's always a general sense of an unshakable charm, a feeling that the flick is a free-flowing story-book come-to-life like most of the studio's attempts usually are. A couple of song-and-dance scenes stand out not for their narrative merits - or even, particularity, their musical ones (though the songs themselves, sung solo, are certainly good and have stood the test of time) - but for their lively animation and cheerful choreography. These pop off the screen as sequences that deviate from the rest of the movie's slightly 'lower rent' status and easily align themselves shoulder-to-shoulder with some of the best of their peers, to the point that they feel like the only reason you'd ever actually watch the movie. Ultimately, there's little here. It's a decent if dull picture that plays it by-the-book and only has a couple of scenes that really stand out, as well as the odd quirk indicative of the style and time. 5/10
There are any number of versions of 'The Jungle Book' out there, ranging from the 1942 film featuring non-actor Sabu, up to the 2016 modernized epic, quite vibrant and colorful but maybe a bit too intense for young kids. This is undeniably the most kid friendly version, at least of those I've seen, and would be a nice introduction to the Rudyard Kipling stories of Mowgli and his animal friends for young viewers. All of the characters are entertaining, up to and including the villainous Python Kaa and Tiger Shere Khan. They aren't drawn or voiced in such a menacing manner that it would send the youngsters hiding under the bed. The jovial animals like Baloo the Bear and King Louie add an amusing comedic element to the story and with the upbeat songs, the film has the ability to transfix it's audience throughout. I had forgotten all about the comical vultures, and while listening today, I couldn't help thinking that yet another modern day remake might make use of Ringo Starr for one of the British voices; that would be just about perfect. With it's fairly short run time of seventy eight minutes, I thought the ending could have been handled just a little bit better as it seemed quite abrupt once Mowgli met the young Indian girl. Be that as it may, the picture has a nice message of friendship and loyalty, and serves well as the nineteenth and last animated feature that Walt Disney would have been personally involved in. The picture ought to be considered required viewing for all youngsters who might enjoy an uplifting jungle adventure.
A beautifully made movie, one of my favourites when I was a child.The friendship between the boy and the jungle animals is shown in a funny and quite moving way.A nice movie to watch with your kids on a Saturday/Sunday afternoon.
There aren't many animated Disney films I don't like; actually, I think every single one of them until the end of the seventies was amazing. But for me, this is the one that stands out. Wolfgang Reitherman has directed some of the studio's best - but here he has created his masterpiece. It has fantastic animation, fantastic characters - and what a killer soundtrack! This film will stay with me forever, and I'm so happy it was created.
Animation - For some reason this cartoon manages to make every location seem like a small artificial set. Though the animation is decent, it doesn't look like a lot of effort was put in to make this movie look very three-dimensional. Or maybe it was and this is just down to this movie being old. If so, then it doesn't stand the test of time in this area. Plot - This movie, though entertaining has a lot of filler and plot holes. Still good though. Songs - This movie is a musical, and most of the songs are pretty good. Characters - The characters in this movie aren't very developed but at the same time they're kinda interesting.
The Jungle Book ended Walt Disney's film career with a bad note. Throughout, the film was boring. Disney tried to make it funny when he had elephants acting like millitary commanders. With the rest of the film, he used singing to try to make it entertaining. He did a poor job. The overall plot was fine, but the manner of presenting it made it a boring film. Maybe toddlers would be amused by this, but I find boring. I would not recommend this film.
I grew up watching The Jungle Book since I was 5 years old. It gave me the best part of my childhood in my lifetime. The animated film based on the original book, always keep me happy and entertained due to its brilliant music, amazing voice acting, smooth old school animation, and its simple yet enjoyable plot. The characters in the movie are charming and appealing, and the music is on tune on every song they played. The story of The Jungle Book is agreeably decent and simple, enough for it to joyed throughout the film. Overall, this movie is indeed a classic and it is one of my favorite Disney movies ever.
the songs, the characters, the story. this movie has it all. there is such heart and love and adventure in this story and it has a great message about animals and humans and their relationship together. I will always love this movie and I will always love the kid in this movie and he is so smart, kind, funny, energetic, and adventurous. This movie is a Disney classic.
Though made in 1967, 'The Jungle Book' still holds up as good as ever today (and probably forever) because of its incredibly catchy tunes and crazy-good voice acting.For a basic plot summary, this movie sees 'man-cub' Mowgli (voice of Bruce Reitherman) adopted by panther Bagheera (Sebastian Cabot) in the jungle. When the threat of Bengal tiger Shere Khan (George Sanders) and his hatred of all things human comes to the jungle, however, Bagheera resolves to place Mowgli in the 'man-village' once and for all. Along the way, however, they encounter a crazy cast of characters that includes the singing bear Baloo (Phil Harris), an orangutan king (Louis Prima), and a slithering snake named Kaa (Sterling Holloway).Though the storyline is filled with enough emotion to never truly get old, the hallmarks of this movie are easily its jazz-based soundtrack and one-of-a-kind voice acting. Every song is catchy in a toe-tapping kind of way, the slow ones add even more emotional depth to the story, and the voices behind the characters are so distinct that they seem to just bring them to life!I watched 'The Jungle Book' over and over and over again as a child, and can still say that I enjoy it today. It is completely family-friendly and can be watched by even the youngest of children. If you haven't shown this one to your children or younger family members/friends yet, it is a must to get them acquainted with this unique jungle world!
This movie is one of the most remarkable of my childhood and I am sure it was part of the childhood of hundreds of other children. It tells the story of a human child who is found and raised by animals in the middle of the Indian jungle, living there until being forced to return to the human village due to the hatred that Shere Khan, a Bengal tiger, fed to humans due to the hunt. It is a light adaptation of a famous novel of the Victorian era. Visually, it is a magnificent movie, using the luxuriant Indian forest to brighten the screen. The animations were very well done and the colors are great, just like most of the sound effects. Its one of the animations of the Disney's golden age that more focuses on song, with several being created for it. Most of them have been in the ears of generations, like 'Wanna be like you' or 'Bare Neccessities'. There are some critics who advocate the idea that the use of black jazz rhythms at a moment when many monkeys appear is a symptom of racism or prejudice. I don't know to what extent that was the intention but I feel it is something to be devalued. After all, the film has been done for decades and, especially in recent years, social censorship points out all that can, even slightly and unintentionally, have racist connotations, in a nonsense witch hunt that is as dangerous as the racism itself. Controversy aside, it's a timeless movie that will definitely continue to make the delights of kids and adults.
How can you not love this famous story. We are introduced to Mowgli, raised by wild animals, all of whom have memorable personalities. Most of them are benevolent creatures who direct the young man to a life where he is loved. Of course, the jungle is filled with threats, from Kaa to Shere Khan. There are wonderful songs an animation that knows no peer. This was produced in the Disney heyday and sparkles from beginning to end. There are other versions that put more fang into the story. They have their merits as well, but this is the one that most of us remember. It's a story of love and caring that all kids and adults should enjoy.
Overall: This movie is definitely one of Disney's classic movies and will not be forgotten for decades to come. It's a great movie and fun for the whole family.Good: Each individual character is unique and interesting and memorable. The voice acting is fantastic as is the phenomenal score. The film does an outstanding job making you feel really uneasy around Shere Kahn and makes him very threatening. Simplistic yet brilliant plot.Bad: The climax for the movie is quite poor and very unsatisfactory. The only reason I knew it was near the end was because I checked to see how long before it went of. The movie shows no real sign or any decent way of saying we're stopping in a few minutes and instead opts to rush into it's climax. The short, snappy bursts of comedy don't provoke any reaction from me but I'm sure they will with some people.Best Part: 'Oh the Bear Nescessities!' 9/10
The thing that usually makes me a hard sell with Disney movies is that they're synonymous with musicals Something like 'Beauty and the Beast' overcomes this with no problem. At the other end of the spectrum is (ugh) 'The Lion King'. And then, there's 'The Jungle Book', which is the gold standard, if you ask me. These are the kinds of songs you find yourself humming in the halls at work; I mean, really, can you think of a more pleasing ear worm than 'The Bare Necessities'? It's not just the outstanding soundtrack, but the general upbeat mood this movie strikes. To this day, I love the back-and-forth between Baloo and Bagheera, and King Louie's sequence has to be some of the most fun you can have with one of these movies. Throw in the Beatles vultures and you've got an array of memorable characters.The whole thing's just a treat.8/10
Disney's adaptation of Rudyard Kipling's legendary book of the same name does filter out the dark tone of its source material in an effort to make it more family friendly and certainly was a cinematic gem of its time but looking back now, it's a tad too juvenile, simple & innocent for my taste.The story of The Jungle Book follows Mowgli, a feral child raised by a family of wolves who is being escorted by Bagheera the panther to his own kind & for his own safety as Shere Khan has returned to the jungle. On their way, they meet Baloo the Bear who takes the young kid under his wing.Directed by Wolfgang Reitherman, this is one of those lighthearted, sugarcoated musicals that are in tune with Disney's early animated classics & is clearly aimed at kids. The hand-drawn animation is admirable but the plot becomes repetitive after a while, is slow despite its 78 minutes runtime & nothing interesting ever happens in it.The songs aren't catchy, the dance numbers are distracting, and the overly juvenile portrait makes it a tedious film to sit through. Leaving me bored for the most part & unmoved by everything it had in store, The Jungle Book is a film that very much belongs to its era and the only way I can imagine it working today is on the strength of nostalgia.
Disney in general has made numerous films that are deeply layered with themes that first time viewers may not recognize. It's one of the reasons why Disney is so successful at making films. They also have their fair share of poor writing too but the entirety of them is not as voluminous as the ones many people remember and enjoy. Even with this though, Disney has also made films that weren't as richly textured and scaled up to a more complex level of understanding. That is not to say that the movies that are simpler are lower on an intellectual basis, no. Instead, they are just as influential if not more because of just how simple they are compared to Disney's other laminous movies. It would seem most of these particular types of films would go back to Disney's classical period of all their hand drawn animated features that everyone considers classics today. Of this group of films, the film that best represents the one note feature is this movie. It doesn't explore much other than one plot and that's fine.The movie is based off of the 'Mowgli Stories' written by Rudyard Kipling. Audiences are introduced to Mowgli, an orphaned boy in the middle of the jungle who is found and observed by Bagheera the panther as he's raised by a wolf pack. After 10 years word gets out that Shere Khan the tiger is returning to kill Mowgli, so Bagheera decides to try and bring Mowgli back to the man village. The problem is, Mowgli won't go because he loves the jungle and all of his friends are there. Helping solidify his belief that the jungle is where he belongs is Baloo the bear. A lackadaisical beanbag that loves to just enjoy his surroundings. Adapted by the writers of Bambi (1942), Peter Pan (1953), Robin Hood (1973) and 101 Dalmatians (1960), it's obvious to why mostly everything about what goes on in this feature film is so amiable. The characters and the voice actors that play the characters are exceptionally fun and likable to watch on screen.Of the cast, the only one who is still living is Bruce Reitherman who voiced Mowlgi. At the time he was only 12 and his voice matches the look of Mowlgi well. Today Reitherman has filled other filmmaking positions but mostly has appeared as himself for various documentaries. Voicing Bagheera was Sebastian Cabot, who speaks from time to time but also narrates. Some might recognize him as the narrator to all the classic Whinnie the Pooh tales as well. Phil Harris as the lazy bear Baloo doesn't stray far from his natural voice but nonetheless has made Baloo one the more memorable characters from this period in the mouse house's filmography. Shere Khan the tiger played by George Sanders was amazing. Naturally the voice matches the presence of Khan and although he's the antagonist, there's a lot to like about him too. There's also appearances from Sterling Holloway as Kaa the snake, Louis Prima as King Louie of the Apes and J. Pat O'Malley as Colonel Hathi the Elephant.There's really only one thing that should be addressed and that's the fact of how sexism plays a small role. It's difficult to say without giving it away but there's a moment where it plays a turning point for a character. Fine, it's understandable but at the same time more than just one character could've played a part to help serve their purpose for the turning point. This was a different time when the movie was made but it seems a bit one sided. This is it though, the animation still has the Disney classic look to it and it's important to know that animating is a very time consuming task so kudos to those who worked on that part of the film. There are a number of other discrepancies that don't make sense like why is called the jungle book when it really doesn't have to do with a book except the intro. Or how is that Kaa can hypnotize his victims with his eyes so easily. At this point, these are questions that are just asking for too much, so it's not needed.The songs are also very catchy. With lyrics written by Richard M. Sherman and Robert M. Sherman, the same song writers from The Parent Trap (1961), The Sword in the Stone (1963) and Mary Poppins (1964), how could one not see why the songs in this film are so timeless. It's hard to find anybody who doesn't enjoy or at least tap a toe for 'Bare Necessities', 'I Wanna Be Like You' or 'We're Your Friends'. For the film score, George Bruns composed the music. Bruns also composed the film scores to 101 Dalmatians (1961), The Sword in the Stone (1963), The Love Bug (1968), Herbie Rides Again (1974) and Robin Hood (1973). For this feature, the music again calls back to the classic Disney sound of orchestras from that time. There are a lot of strings, trumpets and drums. Plus considering the setting is in the jungle, it suitably fits. If still works, then there's obviously no reason to knock it then.The writing is very simplistic and that is all the story needed. It does suffer from one apparent sin at a certain point in a story arc but the voice acting, animation and music make it difficult to really fault it at all.
As the first film in Disney's Dark Age, The Jungle Book is nothing short of an experience for new moviegoers, who can appreciate a majority of the music, and movie veterans who can appreciate the timeless charm given out by the voice actors, like Louis Prima and Phil Harris. Minor bits of the animation are recycled (Mowgli getting cuddled by the wolves was copied from a similar scene in The Sword in the Stone, but unless you are a die-hard Disney fan like I border, it's unlikely you will notice). The humor hits almost every time, the action is stimulating, and the songs are nothing short of classic. While the 2016 version is better in my personal experience and opinion, I can still appreciate this for what it is: a relatively light-hearted musical comedy, compared to the dramatic thriller of the 2016 'remake'. Either way, Rudyard Kipling would enjoy the film despite the changes made to the story to banish dark parts.
This is hands down one of the greatest films ever made! it doesn't matter that its an animated film or that it was made in 1967, or that it is only 78 minutes long. The story, and the characters are all exciting and have a lot of depth in them. Much more then modern day 3 or 4 hour epic adventure movies. The film, has a very balanced pace with a lot of drama, musical scores and even comedic moments. This what all films should strive to be. Not boring and not long, and always play with the viewers emotion. Leaving him wanting to see the film again and again.This is a film that has lasted already over 50 years and is still enjoyed by today's children and Adults as well. Baloo is one the most iconic bears of Cinema, his song The bare necessities is considered to be one of the greatest cinema songs of all time!If you get the chance to have a look at this film, do not hesitate!!It is one of the greatest films of all time
Everybody knows this movie as the last animated movie Walt Disney ever worked on, the following animated movies ripoff some of the animation from the movie, and for its long lasting memorable songs. In many ways that is what Disney's The Jungle Book is.Basically the story revolves around Mowgli 'a man cub' and his many adventures in the jungle which include being raised by wolves, escaping the possibility of going to the man village, joining an elephant bootcamp, kidnapped by monkeys, befriending a carefree bear, escaping a hypnotizing snake, and staying out of Shere Khan the tiger's way, who has vowed to kill man. The older I got the more I realized that this movie doesn't have much focus in its story, it's just Mowgli going from character to character and song to song. Obviously the book is nothing like that, but I kinda wonder if that's the charm of the movie being only about characters and the timeless songs to identify them. Though there are times I wonder what would have happened if we spent more time with the monkeys, elephants, and the vultures what more adventures could be had with them. But then again, it's a 75 minute movie taking chances with a whole series of stories combined into one book. Adapting any story into a movie is difficult no matter what.The characters are mostly two dimensional and yet they are so likable. I don't know if it has to do with their design, songs, personalities, how they satirize so much from the time (like the army, old catchphrases, celebrities, and so on), pitch perfect voice actors - who were famous at the time like Sterling Holloway, Louis Prima, Phil Harris, and George Sanders - or all of the above. One way or another we all remember them, know their songs, laugh at their jokes, and enjoy them for lasting generations. I still love Shere Khan having nothing to fear and that rich voice, I love King Louie's song, the friendship between Mowgli, Baloo, and Bageera, and Colonel Hathi's army obsessed nature. One thing I love about the animation is how timeless and unique it is. It's not watercolors or like tapestry work, it's xerography (or hand drawn animation). While Disney has done hand drawn animation before, this kind of sketching seemed a bit rougher. The environment feels like a real jungle. Also the art makes the characters and environment seem unlimited in what they can do or where they can go. Of course the music is excellent. What makes it even better is when it combines with the animation and environment in the right way. When it does that, you feel the atmosphere of the jungle, the danger, the suspense, and the fun. The fun just about always comes from the songs, which are done by the Sherman Brothers (except for Bare Necessities which was done by Terry Gilkyson), and as usual, they're a lot of fun to listen to for their creativity in lyrics. Each time you hear them you wonder how much fun the songwriters or singers had fun with it. The main song everybody remembers is Bare Necessities and how laid back and carefree it is. Even the new movie knew that they could not leave out that song for such a laid back character. The final song is such a perfect way to wrap up the movie after all the fun is over. It's not an epic conclusion, it is just a nice, calm, and soothing way to say goodbye to Mowgli as he goes back where he belongs as do the other characters. I guess in some symbolic sense it was also a nice way to say goodbye to Walt Disney as he went back where he belonged. While this may not have been an epic story or one with much focus, it's mostly just charming a lot of fun to watch. If you want a real story, I would recommend the book more, but if you're in an absolutely good mood, then this movie is perfect to brighten up your day.
The original Jungle Book is about a young boy named Mowgli who is reared by wolves and befriends a tiger called Baghara who protects him from Shere Khan who is out to get him. He later meets a bear named Baloo, a jazz loving bear who becomes friends with Mowgii and together they help each other out. So will Shere Khan get Mowgli?Overall this is pretty similar to the 2016 version which was spectacular the only difference is Baloo disguises himself as a monkey whereas in the new one he doesn't. The animated one is shorter than the live action one and Kaa is voiced by the same voice actor that gave us Winnie The Pooh,whereas in the new one its Scarlett Johanson. If you loved the new one then you will love this one.8/10
The Jungle Book is a great movie with a well written storyline and a stellar voice cast. Its filled with very lovable characters, which I think is the main highlight, the relationship between Mowgli and Baloo is very sweet, Shere Khan is a great villain and King Louie is simply a delight to watch. As far as plot goes, it is very weak in comparison to other Disney classics, its extremely straight forward, lacking any extra layers to make it a more compelling story, its simply following a boy who lives in a jungle, eventually being threatened by a tiger, and is eventually saved. The musical numbers are terrific, with the likes of 'Bare Necessities' and 'I Wanna Be Like You' always being a pleasure to hear, they are catchy, upbeat and will leave you in a good mood. Though its story may be weak for todays standards, The Jungle Book is a fun, light hearted animation that the whole family can enjoy. A boy who lives in the jungle with his animal companions is threatened by a ferocious tiger.
The Jungle Book is one of those movies that we seem to remember in glimpses. We know the musical numbers and all the characters, but unless we've seen it as an adult, we can't quite remember exactly what happens. But we know it's iconic. We know it's a Disney classic. However, this film may have benefited from being a tad bit longer. There are too many characters we'd love to see more of and so many chances to build up the depths of our leads.Although I do like this movie a great deal for nostalgia's sake, I wouldn't constitute it as one of Disney's best. The songs are top notch, and the characters are memorable, but it's missing a lot of heart compared to the studio's gems of the same era. When Mowgli leaves his wolf family at the beginning of the film, there is no heartfelt goodbye. These are the creatures who raised him, and he barely bats an eye as Bagheera leads him on his way to the 'man village' to escape the tiger, Shere Khan, who's trying to kill him. And without giving anything away, there are also a couple of key scenes towards the end that should have given us a little more sentiment.Which leads me to the voice of Mowgli. The kid playing him has no feel or emotion. It sounds as though he's simply reading the lines (or having them read to him) straight off the paper. It's our main character, and his voice lacks any true conviction.Granted, this was released in 1967, a year that marks, for many, the beginning of Disney's 'dark period'. It's still a beloved movie, and rightfully so. It's filled with some iconic scenes. The one with King Louie, for example. It's so good, you wish you had been treated with just a few more glimpses of the antihero.It's the darker, more twisted, tone that drives this film the most between the catchy musical sequences. It encompasses the jungle-feel very precisely, and transcends through from Rudyard Kipling's original source material, despite Walt trying to prevent it. Everywhere Mowgli turns, there's someone out to kill him. I know it sounds like I'm berating this film a lot, but I actually love The Jungle Book. It's one that I watched often as a kid and one that still makes me smile as I watch it as an adult. Luckily, this film won't face many new critics as mostly everyone has seen it by the time they are old enough to care. That's one of the beautiful things about these old epitomes of animation.Twizard Rating: 90
The Jungle Book is one of those movies that we seem to remember in
glimpses. We know the musical numbers and all the characters, but
unless we've seen it as an adult, we can't quite remember exactly what
happens. But we know it's iconic. We know it's a Disney classic. However, this
film may have benefited from being a tad bit longer. There are too many
characters we'd love to see more of and so many chances to build up the
depths of our leads.Although I do like this movie a great deal for nostalgia's sake, I
wouldn't constitute it as one of Disney's best. The songs are top
notch, and the characters are memorable, but it's missing a lot of
heart compared to the studio's gems of the same era. When Mowgli leaves his wolf family at the beginning of the film, there
is no heartfelt goodbye. These are the creatures who raised him, and he
barely bats an eye as Bagheera leads him on his way to the 'man
village' to escape the tiger, Shere Khan, who's trying to kill him. And
without giving anything away, there are also a couple of key scenes
towards the end that should have given us a little more sentiment.Which leads me to the voice of Mowgli. The kid playing him has no feel
or emotion. It sounds as though he's simply reading the lines (or
having them read to him) straight off the paper. It's our main
character, and his voice lacks any true conviction.Granted, this was released in 1967, a year that marks, for many, the
beginning of Disney's 'dark period'. It's still a beloved movie, and
rightfully so. It's filled with some iconic scenes. The one with King
Louie, for example. It's so good, you wish you had been treated with
just a few more glimpses of the antihero.It's the darker, more twisted, tone that drives this film the most
between the catchy musical sequences. It encompasses the jungle-feel
very precisely, and transcends through from Rudyard Kipling's original
source material, despite Walt trying to prevent it. Everywhere Mowgli
turns, there's someone out to kill him. I know it sounds like I'm berating this film a lot, but I actually love
The Jungle Book. It's one that I watched often as a kid and one that
still makes me smile as I watch it as an adult. Luckily, this film
won't face many new critics as mostly everyone has seen it by the time
they are old enough to care. That's one of the beautiful things about
these old epitomes of animation.Twizard Rating: 90
Listed as number 19 in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series, The Jungle Book is one of the House of Mouse's most beloved films. Loosely based on Rudyard Kipling's book of the same name, Disney demanded a sure-fire hit after the underwhelming response to The Sword in the Stone (1963) and removed any hints of the darkness of Kipling's text in favour of a more child-friendly experience. The last movie to be produced by Walt before his death in 1966, the result is one of the most effortlessly charming films he ever presided over. Featuring possibly the most memorable and catchy song in Disney's history (Bare Necessities), he at least he went out on a high note.Mowgli (voiced by director Wolfgang Reitherman's son, Bruce) is a young orphan boy who, after being discovered in the deep jungle in a basket by Bagheera the Panther (Sebastian Cabot), is raised for the next 10 years in a wolf pack. After learning that the monstrous, man-eating tiger Shere Khan (a wonderful George Sanders) has returned to the jungle, the pack decide that Mowgli must be taken to the nearby 'man-village' to be with own people for his own safety. Bagheera volunteers to escort him to safety, but he soon becomes frustrated with Mowgli's insistence on staying in the jungle and leaves him the hands of Baloo (Phil Harris), a laid-back bear who promises Mowgli to never take him to the man-village.With animation far below the standard set by Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937) and a group of insufferable vultures modelled on the Beatles, The Jungle Book remains great despite its flaws by being so damn heart-warming. The final scene, as Mowgli gazes upon one of his own kind for the first time, is truly wonderful in its unsentimental simplicity. The music, by the Sherman Brothers and Terry Gilkyson, is one of Disney's best soundtracks, with Louis Prima's jazzy I Wanna Be Like You proving particularly toe-tapping. Cabot and Harris are fun as Mowgli's bickering escorts, but Sanders and Sterling Holloway - as the hypnotising Kaa the Snake - steal the show as the bad guys. One of Disney's very best.
Like someone else who wrote a review of this film, I saw this at a drive in way back in the late 1960s and I, too, was displeased. I was only a kid, but kids know good art and bad art. It was too commercialized, and I sensed this. So what if Louis Prima sang some of the numbers? I did not know Louis Prima from Adam because I was not a sophisticated grown up. All I knew was the movie lacked heart. The only good that came of my seeing this film was becoming interested in reading the original works by Rudyard Kipling. The difference was like night and day between the deep thoughts expressed in Kipling's stories of Mowgli and the Disney version. It also kind of soured me on all subsequent Disney movies, which even Pocahontas could not fully cure.
What can we say about the Jungle Book, every song is a single along kids karaoke classic, the animation is just amazing, its a wonderful story about adventure and friendship that we love to sit down and watch on a lazy Sunday afternoon with the kids. They enjoy it just as much as we do and we remember sitting around on those same lazy Sunday afternoons watching it with our parents. What's more anybody who was in the cub scout movement knows the story because all the troupe leaders took their names from the story.This film brings tears to my eyes just thinking of all the happy memories I can associate it with. Wherever life leads you as you get older, if you feel down watch this film and it will cheer you up guaranteed!
The Jungle Book is one of the most well-known Disney films ever made and a very good example on how Disney excels when it comes to memorable characters and fantastic songs. Based on Rudyard Kipling's book of the same name, it tells the story of Mowgli, a small boy abandoned in the jungle and raised by wild wolves and various other jungle animals, including a panther, a bear and some vultures.What sets The Jungle Book apart from the other Disney films of the same era is the overall quality of all of its parts. Granted, the animation style is still a bit rough thanks to the Xerox method used to essentially copy and paste certain frames so as to cut corners. But it is a lot better than in the other films they made with it, plus the characters designs are a lot better than was the norm. The songs by the Sherman Brothers are some of the most memorable Disney has ever done and are only surpassed by those in Mary Poppins.Plus the story and the characters are a lot of fun, and the whole narrative flows absolutely without a hitch, depicting Mowgli's journey out of the jungle as they find out that Shere Khan, the tiger, is returning and is sure to kill any human he comes across.If I had to name one flaw, I'd say that the villain is something of a letdown in the end. At first he's great, and I totally understand why he's considered one of the strongest Disney villains. Plus it's great that he has something of a competitor in Kaa, the python. But the final confrontation with him and Mowgli was an extreme disappointment, not going to lie. Wham, bam, thank you, ma'am.But, aside from that, The Jungle Book is a great deal of fun. Do check out this born classic, you're not going to regret it.
The Jungle Book is one of Disney's most well-known films before the Renaissance. It's based on Kipling's classic collection of short stories, and even though this adaptation isn't exactly true to the book it is quite entertaining.If you're not familiar with The Jungle Book, it's like this: An orphan child is raised by two wolves, who call him Mowgli ('The Frog'). As he matures, he is guided in the ways of the jungle by Baloo the bear and Bagheera the panther. But he must avoid the despicable Shere Khan (and, in this version, Kaa) if he wants to survive.The characters in Disney's Jungle Book are a mixed bag. For me, Bagheera (played brilliantly by Family Affair's Sebastian Cabot) and Shere Khan (George Sanders) are the standouts; they're very close to what Kipling wrote. Mowgli is rightfully curious but his use of 60s slang like 'yeah man' is hardly endearing. Baloo is probably the most famous character from Disney's adaptation, and although his laid-back persona is a far cry from the book, he's still likable. While I don't mind changing Baloo's character, Kaa, my favorite character from the book, might as well not even exist in this movie. Disney changed him from a sage into an old kook. Though he is scarier in the book, he's a far deeper character that actually befriends Mowgli. Here, he simply tries to strangle and eat the kid, a difference of night and day.The musical numbers are creative and enjoyable, with memorable hits like 'Bare Necessities' and the elephant march. The tune for 'I Wanna Be Like You' is catchy, but the dance number? I seriously wish I'd never seen that.Overall, The Jungle Book is a decent movie. But without that 'I Wanna Be Like You' dance segment and the terrible rewriting of Kaa, it'd be much better.
Bagheera the Panther and Baloo the Bear (Phil Harris) have a difficult time trying to convince a boy to leave the jungle for human civilization.Although this movie appeared after the Golden Age and before the Second Golden Age, it was a pretty strong entry in the Disney catalog. Most people are familiar with the 'Bear Necessities' song, even if they do not know the words. And a whole new generation was introduced to the characters in the 1990s through the cartoon series 'Tailspin'.What is most interesting is how Ka is voiced by the same man who did Winnie the Pooh, and there is very little difference in how he presents them (beyond extending the hiss sound for Ka). If you close your eyes, you could hear Pooh make threatening comments... it is rather strange.
The Jungle Book to this day remains one of my favorite animation films from Disney because I watch it a lot as a kid.The film is just one of those films that is like a fine wine only get better with age and that is what is rare for animation films these days.The Jungle Book has everything you would want in a animated film and this is quite rewarding from start to finish.You got a strong story as Mowgli our main protagonist along with Bagheera must go home to the Man Village before Shere Khan the main antagonist returns to the jungle.Unfortunately Mowgli is not willing to return to his home that's when he meets Baloo. The Jungle Book features a collection of classic characters like Baloo, Bagheera, Kaa, Mowgli and Shere Khan. Each character has a lot of special to the story of the film.The Jungle Book also features superb animation that is very well timed and great backgrounds you can tell Disney took the time to make sure the animation is done right. You can really appreciate the attention to detail in this film.The voice acting is phenomenal. The cast really brought these characters to life and you can really enjoy the film for that.Also the music is pure classic with my two favorite songs being 'The Bear Necessities' which I used to get up and move along with the song because Baloo made the song a hit 'I wanna be like you' Is my other favorite for the beats and the lyrics it just goes to show how you can make great music in a film.The Jungle Book has it all, wonderful animation, timeless characters and superb story telling, humor, action and drama there is no way you can go wrong with the Jungle BookI give The Jungle Book an 10 out of 10
As a kid, I loved this film. The Jungle Book was one of the first films I ever saw and is probably one the reasons I decided to pursue a career in films and I will always be fond of that. However, today, as a film, it's OK. That's not bad or good; it is just OK.For one thing, the film is very slow, which for an animated film can be quite tedious at times. My second (and probably biggest) problem with the film is that it simply plays it too safe; I can't help but wish that if this film had come out during the era of the Disney Renaissance (Aladdin, The Lion King etc.) then a few more risks would have been taken, e.g. I felt the climax between Mowgli and Shere Khan was very underplayed and could have been a lot more tense and dramatic, for example, it would have been a lot more powerful if Mowgli had defeated his enemy for good and killed Shere Khan (in the manor that heroes normally defeat their villains in Disney films) or some of the characters could have been a bit more menacing such as Kaa or Louis. I also feel that film tired much too hard to make comedic moments through out the film. The songs themselves did not really measure up to the Disney standard (with the exceptions of The Bear Necessities and I wanna be like you) and felt that they where very dumbed down. I also felt the animation was somewhat lacking and again, I felt could have benefited had this film been made during Disney's golden age in the 1990's.The film did have some positives as well, the best bit of the film is Shere Khan, and he's just a great villain. George Saunders gets the balance between Khan's sophisticated demeanor and his bloodthirsty intentions, the contrast is very effective and in my opinion, Shere Khan is one of the most memorable villains in Disney history. Baloo the bear was also a lot of fun, and it was really a shame when he appeared to have been killed at the end. Mowgli and the other characters are OK, and they all do their part.Overall, I won't say I don't like the film or it's not worth watching because I can't imagine that anybody watching it would hate it. However, I can't see anyone today putting it at the top of their film watching priorities. With two film versions of The Jungle Book coming up (one by Disney, the other by Warner Bros.) I will be very interested to see how they deal with their adaptations.
I noticed one reviewer who called this film 'the best animated of the golden era'. Hmmm. I beg to differ. While I LIKE the film, the single biggest weakness is its animation. It's good but not at all of the same quality as earlier artistic triumphs such as 'Pinocchio', 'Bambi' and 'Peter Pan' (among many others). So don't try to tell me that 'The Jungle Book' is Disney animation at its best. It's a pared down form of animation--done with copy machines like '101 Dalmatians'. I am NOT complaining about the use of Xerox machines instead of hand-drawing every scene but it did tend to make the films look a bit rougher. After all, Disney had to save money as production costs were skyrocketing and the public seemed to be embracing cheaper animation (hence the rise of UPA and Hanna-Barbara Studios).As for the rest of the film, it has two big things going for it. First, the songs are mostly very, very good. You cannot hear 'Bare Necessities' without bouncing along with the tune and several other songs are just plain fun. And, this brings me to the second reason- -the movie, over all, IS fun. You simply cannot watch it without smiling and enjoying yourself. Well done overall.
Bagheera the black panther finds a baby boy in a basket. He brings him to be raised by mother wolf. Years later, the tiger Shere Kahn returns to their part of the jungle and threatens to kill the man-cub. The pack decides to send the man-cub back to a man-village with the help of Bagheera. The boy isn't happy to leave the jungle. On the way, he encounters elephants led by Colonel Hathi, orangutans, Kaa the python and the irresponsible fun-loving bear Baloo.It's a fun collection of memorable animal characters. The plot is a little random but I don't think that matters too much in this movie. Compared to its other Disney cohorts, this ranks slightly lower than the classics. The story just isn't that compelling. On the other hand, 'The Bare Necessities' is a great song and there is a childlike joy that permeates much of the movie.
The Jungle Book is one of my favorite films from my childhood. I still literally laugh out loud every time I watch this movie. This is my favorite version of the story because it's too funny and all the characters are likable - even the evil Shere Khan I like.Mowgli is a cute 'man cub', quite a brave little boy especially to stand up to Shere Khan and Kaa. Bagheera - Is a lovable panther. He's a well grounded, down to earth, sensible character type - but he knows how to have fun too. A very enduring toon. King Louie is just insanely fun, so are his band of monkeys. I love their catchy tune 'I Wanna Be Like You'. I am like Baloo, 'Oh man what a beat'. 'I'm gone man - solid gone'. Yes it's a groovy little tune.And Baloo is the best - 'Bare Necessities' all that jazz. I would love to have a (cartoon) bear friend like him because he could liven up any boring day - just like this Disney classic film: The Jungle Book.Simply worded: This film rocks! It's outstanding and memorable.If you like this movie then I would recommend Disney's 'Robin Hood', 'Fantasia' and 'The AristoCats'.10/10
This is one of the most memorable Disney movie from my childhood. And watching it now, I have more appreciation for it. It's actually based on a story about a human boy that was raised by wolves in the jungle. And how the boy adapts and becomes part of his environment. It's actually quite a tragic story, but this is a Disney movie so they want to liven things up a bit. I would say the chemistry is still intact when it comes to the human boy Mowgli, 'Bagheera' the Panther and 'Baloo' the Bear. As a matter of fact, this movie revolves around the chemistry between the three and different opinions amongst them. So yeah, this is a Disney movie that has some good elements to make it worth a watch. Maybe even worth a re-watch.8/10
Loved this as a kid and still love it as an adult. Just re-watched it and found myself knowing the next lines. The soundtrack is fantastic with classic songs including 'I Wanna Be Like You', 'Bear Necessities', 'Trust In Me' and the Water song at the end. The elephant song is pretty good to - in fact it is only really the Vultures (who have a Beatles influence) that let the musical score down. The voice talents of the actors correlate brilliantly with the characters (love Baloo, Shear Khan and the snake.I also think it's quite emotive at the end. For me, it is a Disney classic and one that I could watch and listen to over again.
A wonderful, fun movie, suitable for all ages. One of the more memorable Disney movies. Mostly because of its great soundtrack. Just about every song sticks in your head, never to depart (and thankfully so). The songs move the story along, and give the whole movie a fun, innocent, feel-good vibe.Animation is great too. Some of the tricks and shots are quite outstanding.Voices are spot-on. So many good voice-performances it is hard to pick a stand-out. Louis Prima probably gets the nod due to providing the swingingest, jazziest song of the movie, King Louie's 'I Wanna Be Like You (The Monkey Song)'.Only negative is that the plot is fairly basic.An animated classic, and not just for kids.
There's not a lot to this 75 minute movie. The plot is rambling, and in spite of its brevity, it drags a little in the middle. But overall it's quite entertaining. The best scene is Louis Prima singing I Want to Be Just Like You (I knew the Big Bad Voodoo Daddy version, and was surprised to learn it was a Disney song). The acting is very solid, except for whoever voices the kid. The animation is pretty good, although Disney wasn't at its best design-wise in the 60s (or 70s). It's amusing and has a couple of nice songs. I was a kid when this came out, so there's a chance I saw it at the time, but if so, it didn't stick with me. And it won't stick with me this time. But it's cute.
I remember seeing this at the drive-in probably not too long after its release, so I would have been about 7 years old. For some reason I didn't have good memories of it the way I did with other Disney features, so when I recently had an opportunity to see it again I figured it would be interesting to take a second look at it.Honestly, I still don't like it. I can understand how I was bored at age 7 in the back seat of my dad's Studebaker, and I was just as bored in my living room last weekend in my early fifties.So what's the problem with Jungle Book? Well, we can start with the disjointed storyline: Mowgli is sent off to the man-village without so much as a 'so long, son' from his wolf-parents, and viewers never really get an idea what it is that he's leaving or why he should feel bad about not being there anymore. He encounters several jungle creatures, including King Louie who has a long drawn-out musical number and then vanishes from the storyline altogether. Why was he even there, except to eat up ten minutes of screen time? The villain, Shere Khan, doesn't even appear until the film is half-over. And the stand-by villain, a huge snake, just isn't very scary with Winnie The Pooh's voice coming out of his mouth.The musical numbers and some of the characters are also extremely dated: there are beatnik vultures with Liverpool accents, and King Louie himself is also pretty full of late 1960's attitude. And when Mowgli decides to join the man-village just because a pretty girl winks at him well, Mowgli's around 10, right? A little young for that kind of thing, isn't he? Some reviewers have criticized the animation; I didn't have a problem with that myself. I'm familiar with the slightly rougher style and as it's a product of its time, it worked for me. I also don't mind when animals and humans speak English together, or when bears sing and dance (ARE there bears in the jungle, by the way?). The story just wasn't very good. One catchy song and that's it. Disney had much better efforts in that era, and I'd recommend just about any of the others over this one. If you liked it as a child you might still like it today, but this kid needed prodding from her parents just to stay awake for the end.
There is an interesting - possibly unintentional - racial subtext with this film, which ends with two of the lead characters returning whey they 'belong'. Maybe such things weren't intended with a cartoon film about singing bears who give boxing lessons, but it makes it one of the thematically more intriguing Disney offerings.Technically this doesn't always look like it was made 25 years after Bambi - while the art has a certain elegance in places, it's also scrappy and looks almost pencil drawn at stages. This isn't an express criticism, as it gets by on charm, which it has a considerable supply of.Centrepiece of the film is the sequence with King Louie, a jazz/scat singing orangutan. Although the idea of having someone possess the mannerisms of black culture while in the form of a monkey is a questionable feat, his signature song - wanting to appropriate the manner of another man in order to share in his freedoms is nicely sardonic for 1967.However, if there's one criticism of the film that holds up, it's how episodic the whole thing is. Introducing a great villain like Shere Khan three quarters of an hour into the runtime is quite a novel feat, but other characters are picked up and dropped throughout, with very few constants. Louie doesn't appear again, and just as the film begins to wind down, we get some vultures with 'what's that supposed to be?' English accents. It's telling how old-hat Disney could be at times in that what were inspired as parodies of the Beatles end up singing a Doo Wop number.Ultimately while the film has touches of greatness, and is a very pleasing time-filler, the unevenness of the story progression causes it to feel a little flat when viewed as a whole.
There aren't many animated Disney films I don't like, basically every single one of them until the end of the seventies was amazing. But for me, this is the one which stands out. Sadly, Disney himself never got to see the finished film (he died during the production), but this is one he would have been proud of. Crafted beautifully and with attention to every little detail, from the way the different animal species move to the colorful jungle backgrounds. Wolfgang Reitherman has directed some of the studio's best - but here he has created his masterpiece. Outstanding animation, fantastic characters - and what a killer soundtrack.A joy for every generation to discover anew (my 9-year old nephew currently has a bit of a Shere Khan fixation), I guess I will never outgrow this timeless classic. 10 out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
The Jungle Book is a full-filled adventure about Mowgli, who grew up in the jungle with animals, but, as he got older, is urged by his wise panther friend, Bagheera, to return to the human village to avoid the wrath of man-hating tiger Shere Khan. When Mowgli refuses and wants to stay in the jungle instead, he encounters a host of unforgettable characters. This includes the carefree and adventurous Baloo the Bear; the marching, militaristic Colonel Hathi the Elephant; the swinging, singing orangutan King Louie; and the cunning but hilarious snake Kaa.It is one exciting journey to the next as Mowgli meets these host of characters one by one, trying to find the right friend to lead him into the jungle life. Each character has his unique brand of humor, fun and personality that is a treat for the entire audience to watch. I love Baloo's carefree philosophy of no worries and King Louie's crazy swinging song and dance. My favorite character is Kaa; I love his devious and mysterious personality and his song, 'Trust in Me' - very mesmerizing and catchy. Actor Sterling Holloway voiced Kaa, and was also the voice of Winnie-the-Pooh.At 78 minutes, this movie is just the perfect one for the entire family to enjoy - full of non-stop adventure, lovable characters, catchy songs and a compelling story. This film is a must to add in any Disney movie collection! Grade A
This adaptation of Rudyard Kipling's popular jungle-themed tome keeps it all light and ditches anything deeper than superficial. One would expect this to have a detrimental effect but it all works in the movie's favor. It's basically a string of sketches and set pieces cobbled around a loose narrative, though it flies by quickly, especially when Baloo is on the screen.Mowgli is a man-cub abandoned in the jungles of India and raised by wolves when Bagheera, a concerned panther, steps in and rescues him. Around 10 years later Bagheera tries to take him back to the man village but they are sidetracked by a variety of animals including Kaa, the snake, and lovable, floppy-armed King Louie, an orangutan who wants the secret of fire.Much of the movie has a late-60s jazz theme which keeps it moving and jiving. The jungle animation, making great use of multi-plane cameras, is absolutely gorgeous, and makes every scene a joy to look at, even during some of the lulls (anything with the Elephants).It's easy to see why it has become a classic as the characters are brilliant. Baloo and Co. came back in TaleSpin 23 years later and secured their status among the most popular Disney characters.
Disney is able to brag that 9/10 fans name The Jungle Book as their favorite of the Disney Classics. It is categorized as a Masterpiece, and masterpiece it is! Disney's magic touch was taking the classic stories and turning them into cartoons that kids and adults alike can enjoy, making characters and even certain villains into favorites. Most movies have one or two best characters, but in this movie you come to love almost all characters on the same level! Baloo will always be the go-to for favorites, being the goofy trouble-making big bear that befriends Mowgli. You can come to love the sly, realistic and fatherly Bagheera. Kaa the hypnotizing snake gets several laughs, voiced by the talented Sterling Holloway who gave us Disney gold such as Winnie the Pooh and the Cheshire Cat in Alice in Wonderland. This might be Disney's greatest villain as Shere Khan the tiger is coy, deceitfully honest, and frightening. They can never remake this movie and have it be anywhere near as good, and I hope many generations to come are able to have this wonderful movie touch their lives as it has my generation.
Four years after 'The Sword in the Stone', Walt Disney's final animated feature was released in October 1967; 10 months after his death. This film would be the last major memorable hit the studio would have Dow a few decades.The story is about a boy who was raised by wolves (Mowgli), has to return back to the man village because of the tiger Shere Khan's return to the jungle. Bagheera the panther, Baloo the bear, and Mowgli have a fun and dangerous adventure back to the village.The characters in this movie are all memorable and likable. Mowgli is the typical 10 year old who wants to live a carefree life by not going to society, Baloo is the bear who is very fun and relaxed (he sings the famous 'Bare Necessities'), Bagheera is the responsible one who wants the best for Mowgli. Shere Khan is the perfect intimidating yet classy tiger villain, and Kaa is a sneaky, manipulative snake who just wants to eat.The soundtrack is very memorable and to a lot of people, it is the best aspect of the film. The songs 'Bare Necessities' and 'I Wanna Be Like You' are catchy, jazzy tunes and all of the other songs are nice. The score in this movie is very effective.The animation in this movie is OK. It does not really mesh well with the background, but at the same time, the animation is not horrible. Here is where the reused animation is very noticeable, which gives it a cheap look. It being animated using Xerography does not help.With an alright story, memorable characters, memorable songs, and alright animation, this film is a bunch of fun. Good, not great or bad, but it will be an enjoyable film for the entire family.
The Jungle Book is based off a book. Like HOND, I refuse to read it. The movie is awesome and I would like to keep it that way.What I like about this movie is the music. It's light-hearted and very upbeat compared to most Disney classics. The Bare Necessities is great, one of my favorite Disney songs. I wanna be like you is NOT RACIST! It's just a fun, upbeat song about an orange monkey wanting to be someone else who he is not. Kind of like middle school when most girls think they look terrible and they want to change for the better or worse. It can't be considered racist. Trust in Me is the worst villain song ever. Kaa just sounds so weird (I think Winnie the Pooh sounds awesome, but they have the same voice actor). The score is very good especially at the climax!Here's the million dollar question: did The Jungle Book deserve a possible nomination of The Acadamy's Best Picture award? Some will say no because it's an animated film (umm... take a look at Beauty and the Beast (first animated film nominated) and The Lion King (won Best Picture at the Golden Globes), but they are from the 90's). I would say yes! Some of those films that were nominated sucked! The Jungle Book would get that award if the Acadamy didn't turn it down. So this is my POV about 1968's (maybe 1967) Best Picture Award.What an awesome movie! My parents used to show me this movie all the time and we danced to the music and booed at Kaa! Watch it, you won't be disappointed and hey, you might gain memories out of this classic!
'The Jungle Book' was the last animated feature that Walt Disney worked on before his death, and the film's immense success probably helped prove there was an audience for Disney animation. The character animation is superb; it's no wonder why so many of today's top animators cite this as being among their favourite films. The laid-back, episodic nature of the story (far removed from Kipling's highly strung original, which Disney actually advised his staff NOT to read) allows for some delightfully entertaining scenes; the encounters with King Louie and the Liverpudlian vultures spring to mind. The characters also have a certain warmth about them that hasn't been seen in many Disney films before or since. The score is equally wonderful, and a good number of the songs - 'I Wanna Be Like You' and 'The Bare Necessities' in particular - have become standards.Having said that, I can't help but find 'The Jungle Book' to be rather slight, and perhaps even overrated. As far as I'm concerned, the aforementioned individual elements seem better than the film as a whole. In particular, the lack of structure is as much a curse as it is a blessing; for every engaging scene or two, there can be a truly boring scene. Regardless of these inferior aspects, 'The Jungle Book' is a good film that rightly deserves the label of 'Disney classic'.
Released at a pivotal time in Disney's history, the difficulty to classify 'The Jungle Book' in terms of generation, of eras: not from the Golden Age or Disney Renaissance, gives it a sort of privileged place in Disney's list of animated classics.Most fans would say this is one of the best Disney films, if not the best, and despite my sentimental weakness for 'Aladdin', I concede that 'The Jungle Book' is the one I enjoy the most. No other Disney film beats it on the entertainment department: it has the catchiest set of songs: jazzy, swingy, and sometimes hypnotic and the most colorful gallery of characters combining human's stereotypical traits with a realistic drawing. From the villainous Kaa, the sneaky snake and Shere Khan, the evilly refined tiger, to Hathi, the so-military elephant and the groovy vultures, 'The Jungle Book' is a Disneyan 'Animalistic Comedy' conducted by animators at the top of their game. But again, as the bare necessity of any Disney film, the movie works thanks to the story.'The Jungle Book' finds the perfect balance between two universes too often dissociated, humans and animals. Disney films can be divided into two main categories. First, there are the human-centered stories, notably those adapted from fairy-tales like 'Snow White' or 'Pinocchio' where real animals are reduced to peripheral purposes and hardly communicate. The more defining of Disney touch are the animal-centered films, which feature the world from their perspective and their interaction with humans mostly made of antagonism, to better understand the level of 'humanity' we can learn from those creatures and question ours, three masterpieces come to mind 'Dumbo', 'Bambi' and 'Lady and the Tramp'.'The Jungle Book' transcends this antagonism to a more psychological level, through the story of a little boy, virtually made an animal from his raising by a family of wolves and his tutoring by a black panther named Baghera, who must return back to the men's village to escape from the terrifying Shere Khan, the tiger who made every man a personal enemy, a hatred rooted in his irrational fear of fire: the element that interestingly differentiates humans and animals, fire as synonym of weapon, the same that killed Bambi's mom, or the same fire that almost destroyed the forest when men were hunting. Although Mowgli never learned how to make a fire, because he's still an animal, he carries his own race's dangerous heritage, his life is threatened because of his 'human nature', which makes the assimilation of 'animal culture' totally pointless. The irony is that the 'animal culture' is very similar to humans: elephants constituted an army, monkeys a kingdom, so the line between the two worlds becomes very uncertain.But 'The Jungle Book' insists on making these two worlds totally incompatible through various episodes starting with Mowgli trying to adapt, becoming an elephant, dancing and partying with the monkeys, even standing up to Shere Khan but ultimately, his weakness as a human prevents him from being accepted. This is the point, Mowgli can become stronger only with a human entourage, it's not about differences as weaknesses, but as potential strengths. And Mowgli's coming-of-age can only be achieved when he'll understand the foolishness of wanting to be what we are not, a lesson that should also learn the zany King Louie who wants to know the secret of fire from Mowgli, to be 'just like humans'. Mowgli's dilemma is to accept his own condition and do what nature commands is undermined by an emotional conflict: Baloo vs. Baghera.During the first act, Mowgli is lead by Bagherra whose mission is to conduct Mowgli to the village. Baghera is a serious and no-nonsense character with an admirable sense of responsibility. But Mowgli chose Baloo as a fatherly figure because Baloo is simply a big kid who takes life just the way it comes. The 'Bare Necessities' song is the ultimate hymn for all the lazy, easy-going and positive-attitude guys in the world and this is what drives the bear's life. Baloo and Baghera are the perfect yin and yang for the story, the fun and the serious, the classic polarization of Disney. And this duality made of constant argument reaches its pinnacle in one of my three favorite scenes of the film, when Baloo reassures Baghera that he'll handle everything until the name Shere Khan is mentioned and suddenly, the tone of Baloo dramatically changes, and we can already feel that the two animals are inspired by the same love and desire to protect Mowgli.My two other favorite moments, although not the most 'impacting' occur when Mowgli finally meets Shere Khan, and is given ten seconds to run away, Mowgli confidently gets himself ready to fight where Shere Khan suddenly jumps roaring at Mowgli's terrified face, in one second before Baloo's providential interaction, Mowgli as a vulnerable little child. My last favorite moment is when Baghera starts singing at the end of the film after Mowgli chose to go by himself. It was a nice twist from a very serious character, adding the same level of three-dimensionality than when even the cool and good-natured Baloo decided to take Mowgli to the village. And speaking of the ending, although it's not a canon of adaptation from Rudyard Kipling book, it's morally faithful to the spirit of the film that commands to each creature to be among its own, and Mowgli didn't need to be pushed by Baghera or kept by Baloo, he made his decision alone, after being hypnotized not by a more pleasing form of Kaa-like creatures.'The Jungle Book' is a cheerful and dazzling celebration of the Disney heritage, talking animals, coming-of-age story, music, dance, thrills and chills and for every laugh, a little tear, but not so much tear in a very feel-good film, except one for the great Walt Disney who couldn't have a greater epitaph honoring his extraordinary contribution on the field of animation and entertainment.
Never having seen this before, I sort of figured what was coming. It was the way Disney worked! The good guys want to do something and avoid a bad guy, they meet many fun characters with interesting personalities, and in the end they meet up with the bad guy and have to fight in order to win. There's nothing bad with this repeat, in fact it's good to see the repeats sometimes.I caught on real quick to the classic, simple yet true 'bear necessities' song, I loved the snake, the scene near the end was very amusing as it was taking the idea of the female and exaggerating it which I found funny. And of course the fighting scene with the tiger near the end and the 'death' of the bear, was all very funny. But I have to wonder why the area the tiger ran away from with his tail on 'fire' didn't catch fire? Oh well, haha.Rated 8/10.
Out of all the Disney animated movies, this is one of the few I did not grew up watching with. Don't tell anyone else but I think it was because me brother was scared of Baloo. A singing and dancing huge bear was more than he could handle and the sight of it was more than enough reason to never purchase this movie. But I must say I did not missed much with it. 'The Jungle Book' is an average Disney entry, with average animations, average songs, average characters and a very average main plot line.The lack of story and character development really disturbed me. Basically the movie is an adventure movie, in which the main character has to travel from point A to B and on his way he meets all sort of different characters. And this was something that just didn't worked out too well for me. First of all the movie because of this way of storytelling never really flowed well enough and I can actually imaging some kids getting easily bored with this movie, especially now days. But second of all, it made the movie look too much like it was hanging together from its coincidences. All of the events and characters pop up at random and also often disappear out of the story pretty fast again. Because of this the movie never finds the right pace and also never has the time to develop anything or any of its characters properly enough. So this wasn't really a movie I could ever feel involved with but it of course isn't a bad one. You can still get plenty enjoyment out of watching this movie, since it definitely has its moments. It can be a funny and charming movie at times and even though they don't get developed properly enough; the movie still has some memorable characters in it. But a character that the movie is lacking is a good main villain. I know that the movie was more about its traveling and adventurous elements but it would had made the movie so much more interesting and powerful in my opinion, if the movie had a clear main villain and treat in it. The movie now instead has like 3 small villains, who pop up every now and then.Animation-wise this also isn't Disney's greatest moment. It's not like it's bad looking or anything but it's all very average, for normal Disney standards. This goes for the backgrounds, as well as all of the characters animations and looks. Seemed to me like they spend more this time on studying the movement and behavior of the animals, rather than spending time on creating a good and distinctive look. The only thing the movie does stand out with is with its voice cast. Everyone seemed perfectly picked for the part and the movie actually used some big known Hollywood names as well, such as George Sanders.I don't mean to sound harsh, since I still actually for most part still enjoyed watching it. It just isn't really a Disney classic in my book.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
I'm not a big fan of Disney's The Jungle Book.There. I've said it.I know it was the last movie to reach the screen which had been developed under Walt's personal supervision, but there is quite a lot of it I don't like. I suppose I had better be specific.I never liked the 'scratchy' character and animation design which came in with 101 Dalmations.Jungle Book was the first movie which featured big name voice talent and, more than subsequent films, the voice talent threatened to become more important than the characters they were portraying.Mowgli - horrible. Sorry.The dreadful not-quite-Liverpool accents of the vultures. Did you learn nothing from Mairy Poppuns? I can see what you're going for, but get people who can do an authentic Liverpool accent! Backgrounds - sketchy. Could have done with more detail, greater depth, greater use of multi-plane (in fact the design generally is horrible in this film).Story - inconsequential.Elephants - awful. No plot relevance, mawkish, not funny.The songs - now, I'll give you the songs! In fact, the songs are so good they almost make up or the rest of it.But not quite.
A classic!I loved the songs.The movie starts with panther finding the baby in the basket.She takes him to the Indian wolf who has just delivered babies. Hence, Mowgli is raised with the cubs. 10 years later , a man eating Bengali tiger returns to this jungle and compels the wolves to decide to return Mowgli to a man village.The movie is about the journey and the lessons learned. Eventually Mowgli falls in love with a beautiful girls and decides to follow her into the village. Letting go of his previous life and friends. A story about loyalty and growing up and belonging. Mowgli is often referred to as a man-cub. I loved the movie then and I still love it now. It is an epic.
The Jungle Book is a Disney adaptation of Rudyard Kipling's collection of short stories. The story starts of with a back story of our main character named 'Mowgli'. We also meet the black panther known as 'Bagheera'. The plot is that a child has been found in the jungle and has been delivered to a family of wolves to be taken care of, but time passes and the other animals begin to see that he does not belong in the jungle, and that he belongs with the other men in the village. This idea soon becomes interrupted when another one of the main characters 'Baloo' he flips Mowgli's world upside down and gives him a new feel on life. After talking to Baloo, Mowgli then decides that he wants to stay in the jungle and never leave his new friend. Disney brings a wonderful twist to the writings of Kipling, the animation is rustic and delivers that old time charm. The characters really do grow on you and you start to develop a connection to them as the story progresses further. The musical numbers in this movie are truly magical, and range among the greatest of Disney. From beginning to end the songs just get better and better. This movie is for audiences of all ages and is really a masterpiece to behold. Overall, this movie delivers a steady plot with lovable characters and memorable music. I recommend this movie for all to enjoy.
This is one the Greats. It is one of the best 'Buddy' movies of all time. The animation and interaction between Mowgli, Bagheera and Baloo is wonderful. There is so much spontaneity and energy that you hardly realize as you are watching that years went into the making of this.The movie is edited to perfection with no extraneous scenes – it just moves seamlessly as the story progresses. The renditions of 'Bare Necessities' and 'I Wanna be Like You' are marvelous and etched forever as animation favourites. And the voice-overs are unique and make each character a distinct personality.The extra features on the DVD are excellent and provide a lasting legacy to this fine Disney classic. It is amazing to see how the story evolved and changed during it's creation phase. There is such much love and talent that went into making 'Jungle Book'.
The Jungle Book is, for me, the last gasp of classic Disney. It's the last Disney movie until the latter half of the eighties that I would qualify as the least bit good, yet, it also suffers from many of the problems of the seventies films. This may also be the first case of mass celebrity voice casting, which works fine here but would set a horrible precedent for American animation that lasts to this day. Thankfully, while it's not quite the sum of those parts, many of its parts are highly entertaining...masterful even.As Disney himself was now fully committed to other projects, and died before the film could be completed, this is easily the most episodic and scattershot of the Disney projects under his rule. It takes Rudyard Kipling's Mowgli stories, strips them of its issues on human nature, ignores all the later stuff, and instead uses them as a vague suggestion to set up a bunch of characters and fun situations. It particularly hurts the character of Bagheera, whose commitment to getting the child home doesn't make quite as much sense, and Shere Khan's delayed entrance, though well foreshadowed, doesn't have quite the weight or the mythic sort of relationship with Mowgli. Mowgli himself is the cute little scamp Disney requires by this point, which has its value but isn't' as interesting as if they'd made better use of his whole 'raised by wolves' thing like in the book. Not Disney's forte, perhaps, but one reason why this isn't as good as Princess Mononoke to me (strange comparison, I know).Animation wise, thoughts are liable to be mixed on this one. There's more shortcuts here than in any previous Disney movie. Reused animation aplenty, funky relationships with the cels and the backgrounds, lots of the kind of stuff director Wolfgang Reitherman would abuse in the seventies. There's one bit in particular that's a straight lift from Mr. Toad's Wild Ride.What at least mostly makes up for this, however, is the fact that this is a tour-de-force of master animators doing some of the best work of their career. Ollie Johnston and Milt Kahl do a great bit with Bagheera trying to get Mowgli into a tree that has no real plot significance but which is a masterpiece of timing. Bear Necessities is an iconic number, but would it be so memorable without Ollie Johnston's fantastic work on Baloo? Johnston also does a remarkable job with Baloo's more emotional moments, such as the scene where he tells Mowgli that he has to leave the jungle. John Lounsbery gives a wonderful feeling of weight and caricature to the elephants, arguably his masterpiece. King Louie works mostly because of his animation by Frank Thomas and Kahl, which is so intricately composed and full of personality that it looks easy (even though it's a monstrous bitch to pull off something like that, especially with his hyperactive movement). However, my favorite bit is the restrained yet perfectly controlled, Picasso-influenced work on Shere Khan by Milt Kahl. It's not the most bombastic of these pieces, but his graceful movement combined with his sinister presence (George Sanders' voice work helps quite a bit). The exchange between him and Johnston's Kaa is brilliant animated acting between two of the greatest animators who ever lived.Yet, while all these moments are wonderful to watch, there comes a point toward the end where things seem to just fall apart. Three Beatles-influenced Vultures sing a silly barbershop toon that doesn't quite fit in with the rest of the movie. This scene was finished after Disney's death, and hints at the kind of goofiness that would undo the next few Disney pictures.Overall, The Jungle Book is problematic, but remains an enjoyable picture if one can get past its rough edges. It's the last gasp of the golden age. That's right, folks, my next few reviews are going to be pretty negative, but since very few Disney picture are completely bad and some great work does go into even some of the worst of them, I'll point those elements out too. The Jungle Book, to me, is the mildest example, since the good elements still make this movie work, but the practices of this film never really worked again.
'The Jungle Book' is a wonderful animated film. It is one of the best animated productions made by the Disney Company, being both incredible funny, cute and heartwarming at the same time. Even when the story is quite different from the original tales written by Rudyard Kipling, is still pretty good, working very well, just in the same way of 'Alice in Wonderland'.Characters as the panther Bagheera and the bear Baloo were a very important part of my childhood, but even as an adult I could appreciate how likable and iconic those characters were in comparison with many stupid characters from modern cartoons.'The Jungle Book' is one of the best animated films ever made, and it is one of the best movies for the whole family, having lots of fun and heart, something which many of the modern productions lack.I will give this film eleven stars if I could. It is simply too good.
Off all the Disney animated movies from 1937 to the present, 'The Jungle Book' has always stood out as something special. This movie is quite simply FUN. There is no romance, no attempt to break new ground with it's effects, no dramatics and none of the hokey 'if you dream it, you can be it' bull. This movie succeeds in it's simple goal to bypass all that and just entertain you.The story is inspired by the classic books written by Rudyard Kipling. We follow the man-cub Mowgli (voiced by Bruce Reitherman in an appealing performance) as he treks from the jungle to the man-village. Along the way he encounters a strange parade of figures including the sniveling Kaa (voiced by the great Sterling Holloway), the evil Shere Khan (George Sanders) and the rambunctious King Louie (Louis Prima, who gets the film's best song).His two parental figures are Baloo the Bear and the sage Bagaheera. They are voiced by Phil Harris and Sebastian Cabot and their chemistry together really makes the triangle of Mowgli, the bear and the panther really work. It is probably the most dysfunctional family ever seen in a Disney film.Everything else works just fine. The songs are cute and catchy, the characters interact well with each other, the setting is stylish and the ending is a departure from the clichéd happy ending. This one feels more ambiguous but altogether more satisfying.Although there are some things that will make P.C. nuts squawk (the alleged racism) and the animation buffs cringe (the reused animation) that doesn't change the fact that 'The Jungle Book' is fun, unique, jolly, and full of heart.
simply put,this animated film is lots of fun.with great catch songs,fun action,and it's funny.the characters are also colourful.the voice talents are great,as well.i can't imagine more appropriate voices for the characters.the whole family can enjoy this gem.unfortunately there are a few different inferior versions of this film out that have capitalized on the Jungle Book name but they don't compare to the Disney version.if you haven't seen it yet,i'd recommend it highly.you can't go wrong,in my opinion.just make sure it's the Disney version and not one of the many other cheap knock off versions.for me,Disney's The Jungle Book is a 10/10
Since I was a little kid, the Jungle Book has always been one of my favorites. I have an affection for this movie that only deepens with time, and now I am able to share it with my daughter. It is pure joy captured on film.Maybe it's not a perfect movie, but I love so many things about it: the characters, the setting, the music, and the animation. It looks even better now with DVD restorations with eye-popping colors and beautifully done backgrounds.For me, the heart of the film is the character of Baloo. As a big Disney fan, I would probably pick him if forced to choose my favorite character. His relationship with Mowgli is some kind of cross between a big brother, a playmate, and a surrogate father. I know that when I was a preschooler, I wanted nothing more than to hang out with Baloo.I could never write an objective review for The Jungle Book. I've loved it all my life. The Disney team has given us a timeless gift in this film.
This is one of many Disney flicks I remember from my childhood, but unlike many of them, I don't recall ever seeing the whole thing. From an early age, I was familiar with two of its songs, 'The Bare Necessities' and 'I Wan'na Be Like You'. I first heard those on an album of songs from animated Disney movies, and then saw where they came from. I also saw the live action 1994 film of the same name on the big screen. I've watched a bunch of full-length Disney cartoons again in recent years, some produced by Walt Disney himself and some made after his death. It took me a while to get around to 'The Jungle Book', but I finally rented it a few days ago, and as usual with these movies, I still found this one entertaining after all these years.In the jungles of India, a panther named Bagheera finds a human baby boy (or 'man cub') in a boat wreck, far from the nearest human village. He takes the boy to a pack of wolves for the parents to raise him with their newborn cubs. The boy's name is Mowgli, and he lives in the jungle for the next ten years. The wolves then learn that Shere Khan, a human-hating tiger, is back in the jungle, and Mowgli will have to be returned to the 'man village' to be safe! Bagheera volunteers to take him back, but Mowgli is reluctant, as he wants to stay in the jungle. On the way, they encounter creatures that make the journey more challenging, and after the two of them separate due to the human boy's resistance, Mowgli meets a bear named Baloo. This laid back bear teaches him about living a care-free lifestyle, and he now wants to live with him, but Shere Khan is still a major threat, especially after he learns that there's a human in the jungle! Like many other Disney movies, one thing that helps this film's entertainment level is the animation, most notably the backgrounds here. You obviously can't expect the computer generated backgrounds we see today, but the backgrounds here are still beautiful with the faded colours, especially the green. The story isn't the most interesting one I've ever seen, at least not early in the film, and for a while, I kind of wondered if it was enough to carry the film. Fortunately, I think it gets better along the way, and is often suspenseful, without being too scary. There are also a number of memorable characters, including the lovable Baloo (I might have been introduced to him as a little kid with 'TaleSpin'), Kaa the Snake, King Louie the Ape, Shere Khan, and the vultures based on the Beatles. A lot of the characters provide comic relief. The voice acting is mostly good, with the exception of Bruce Reitherman as Mowgli. The songs are not the best to ever be featured in an animated Disney film, but they are acceptable.This was the last animated feature, of many, that Walt Disney produced in his career, and it came into theatres nearly a year after his death. It was apparently a box office success, which it deserved to be. It showed that Disney's movie franchise was still going strong thirty years after the release of the flick that started it, 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs'. I'm not familiar with the source material (a collection of stories by Rudyard Kipling), which is usually the case with me and these Disney adaptations, but judging this version of 'The Jungle Book' just as a film, I think it's good family entertainment, and obviously many would agree with me. There may be more for kids in the film than there is for adults, but many adults could enjoy it as well (that can be said about any good Disney movie), adults who still like animated family adventures.
When it comes to the Jungle Book, the things that make Disney my idol are few and far between. Firstly, it doesn't merely cross the dreaded line of believable human-animal interaction, it pounds that sucker into the ground. You cannot expect me to take a film seriously that spends its entirety in talking-animal land. It smacks of a film that is squarely aimed at kiddies, and not even moderately intelligent kiddies, but kiddies who scream at the McDonalds to get their happy meal for the next animated tie-in toy (now we're getting into the root of my beef with Pixar). And honestly, that isn't what Disney is about.Once again, the style of animation is not the quality I would prefer. Yes, this film was born out of the turmoil surrounding the death of the master, but his involvement with animated films had been greatly lessened since the arrival of Disneyland in the 50's. And the thick, blocky lines are simply clumsy to watch, smacking again of cheapness and low quality because 'kids wouldn't notice anyways.' Even as a little child, I could tell that plenty of animation was recycled throughout the film, as huge chunks would play out exactly the same frame for frame.Oddly enough, the savior of the film is the animal characters. They are all wonderfully voiced by their respective actors. If Mowgli had been dropped in his entirety, I probably would actually tip towards liking it. The character was irritatingly stubborn and idiotic, and then I wouldn't be bothered by the 'he speaks the language of the animals' paradox. Honestly, they might as well have, as Disney was infamous for strictly ordering his team to ignore the original text. Sher Kahn was a smooth and menacing villain- he should have been given so much more screen time. Phil Harris' wonderfully jazzy, booming voice made Baloo, and who can forget 'The Bare Necessities?'Which brings me to the music, which while distinctly juvenile and has nothing to do with the time period or setting of the film, is just too darn catchy to ignore. The 'Wanna Be Like You' song is delightful in its Louis Armstrong-ness, but the best number for me was the Beatles- inspired 'Thats What Friends are For'. Just think how mind-blowing it would have been if the Beatles had actually spared some time to record for it.So all in all: Great music: poor animation. Interesting characters: poor utilization of them. Sure it's tons better than a Saturday morning cartoon, but come on, is that the level you should be comparing a Disney film?
Disney's The Jungle Book is an endearing story. It has strong, likable characters full of personality. It has music that is at times haunting and intimate, and at times catchy and danceable. The art is beautiful, the humor is effective... it's an all-around good film. ***SPOILERS*** My only complaint is the end feels rushed. We spend the entire film building up to a confrontation with Shere Khan and when it finally comes, the ensuing battle is anti-climactic. A bit of fire and Shere Khan is gone for good. After that, Mowgli's friends just leave him as he wanders into a man village. It's all over in a flash. It just feels... incomplete. ***END SPOILERS***But don't get me wrong, The Jungle Book is nothing short of a Disney Classic. And when its only problem is not being long enough, that's a testament in itself.
In the late 19th century in India, a man-cub named Mowgali was raised by wolves in the jungles and now the feared tiger Shere-Khan (Voiced by George Sanders) has returned to the jungle as he seeks to kill Mowgali. So it's up to wise panther Bagherra (Voiced by Sebastian Cabot) to take him to a man-village where he would be safe but Mowgali refuses to go there as he runs into a lovable bum of a bear named Baloo (Phil Harris) befriends him and goes on a journey from the ruins of jazzy Orangutan King Louie (Voiced by Louis Prima), the wraith of hypnotic snake Kaa (Voiced by Sterlin Holloway) and finally a battle with Shere-Khan.One of the Disney company's most entertaining and spectacular adventures in animation! this was one of the final movies to be supervised by Walt himself before his death. Adapted from Rudyard Kipling's stories of Mowgali as this charming and excellent animated movie offers awesome animation with memorable songs like 'Bear Necessities' etc. and of course heart to go with it. One of my favorite Disney movies of all time!
With my grandfather, watched many Disney films, including Mary Poppins, Three Caballeros, and Jungle Book. Jungle Book is the only Platinum Disney DVD that i bought for myself. The others ones i had were gifts. No other Disney film gives me that happy feeling like Jungle Book. The voices were great, and the songs worked perfectly. This was Walt's last animated picture, and was in my opinion, his best. He shrived for character and personality, not story. In fact, i love the characters so much, that i forget what the story is sometimes. This was Disney at its best. Animators proved that the Disney spirit still lived on. Jungle Book is not as well designed as Lion King or the other 'Disney Renaissance' films, but this was a carefree funny family movie. 10/10, best animated movie ever.
My Take: A fine treat for the whole family. I can honestly say I enjoyed my childhood, if not to say it was definitely the best years of my life (I could go on with describing what made it such a treat, but then again I wouldn't have much time to talk about this movie). So I guess it's safe to say I remember much of it, especially one of the key moments of it. Particularly, I remember what movies I tuned in as a kid. Yes, I used to sit down on the sofa and pop in a VHS of JURASSIC PARK and at least one or two (okay, maybe three) of the LAND BEFORE TIME video sequels. But before other than the VHS, there's the Laserdisc, and other than THE LAND BEFORE TIME, there was THE JUNGLE BOOK.Recalling it know, however, I have a few minimal afterthoughts. While I can honestly say THE LAND BEFORE TIME (only the first one!) eventually emerged as a contemporary classic on my book, THE JUNGLE BOOK was a fine family entertainment, but quite not up to being the classic I presumed. Still, if entertainment is what you wish it will have when you give it a quick rerun, it sure won't disappoint. From the voice casting to the animation, down to the beat of 'Bear Necessities', THE JUNGLE BOOK is fine family fun.Based on the story by Rudyard Kipling (with a purely Disney twist on it of course), jungle boy Mowgli (voiced by Bruce Reitherman) is accompanied by Bagheera the black panther (voiced by Sebastian Cabot) and the wacky, groovy Baloo the bear (voiced with glee by Phil Harris) to head for the fabled 'Man-village' which they believe is where he belongs. Mowgli, reluctant to leave, prefers to stay and groove it with Baloo, while the man-hungry tiger Shere Khan (voiced with menace by George Sanders) and a slimy serpent named Kaa (a familiar voice by Sterling Holloway) looks at him as supper.It didn't look to me like a classic as it used to be, but it's fine entertainment nonetheless. A fast-paced, often funny adventure for the young and old.Rating: ***1/2 out of 5.
It isn't completely faithful to the book, but for a good reason. The book has bits that you can't have in an animation. The animation is beautiful, the backgrounds rich in colour, and the characters beautifully drawn. The story is a very simple one, yet effective, and allows the songs and characters to take force. The songs and music by the Sherman Brothers perfectly match the breeziness of the film, with classics such as ' Bare Neccessities' and 'Wanna Be like you'. Unlike some people, I liked the vulture barbershop, excellent harmonies. And what a talented voice-cast. Phil Harris was hilarious as Baloo, and Sebastian Cabot was brooding as Bagheera. Reitherman's son was good as Mowgli, and Louis Prima(who's not black so the racist overtones idea is ridiculous) was a riot as Louis. The real star was the perfectly cast George Sanders as the frightening and calculating Shere Khan. This is fantastic, if a little short, and avoid the sequel! 9/10 Bethany Cox
This movie is an animation inspiration to such classics as The Lion King, The Little Mermaid, exc. the simplicity in all the drawings is what makes it truly incredible. The facial movements and expressions are classic work at its finest. the artists, composers, and writers did an outstanding job on this movie. and it being the last movie that Walt oversaw it does his memory well. he was truly an amazing artist. One of the amazing things that i love about this film in particular is the detail in the fore, middle, and background. I also think it was wise to only have black lines around the characters and not the scenery. It helps to stay focused on the characters rather than your eyes wondering. The brightness in the color of the eyes throughout the movie help watchers to understand the facial features. It is such a joy to watch this movie every time. if you don't have it, you NEED to get the platinum edition and listen to the audio commentary.
Quire simply put this is animated story telling at its purest and best. This is a joy from start to finish. The story of Mogli the boy brought up by wolves forced to flee the jungle might not be as grand as the normal Disney fare and as a result actually feels like a smaller film, but that is by no means a bad thing. Instead what we have here is attention to character and this is achieved with excellence. Every character here is beautifully created all with their own nuances and traits. We have the main animal characters of Baloo and Bhaghera who are a superb odd couple duo and they and supported by a fantastic supporting cast including the magnificent King Louie and Khaa the snake. With the menacing villain Shea Khan casting a shadow over precedings we get a series of superb set pieces all set to the greatest tunes ever in a Disney film. This is a film I loved as a child and still enjoy regular viewings of today. Gold.
'The Jungle Book' is another colourful Disney classic. What really makes this one so lovable is its charismatic and funny characters. The story is straightforward and could have used some more development and depth. The animation is good but very two dimensional (the characters do not have shadows). Yet, the vibrant exotic colours of the animals and background stand out. The background sound could have used fascinating sounds of the jungle but instead what we get here is silence. Yet, in spite of all the flaws, I loved it. Balu and Bageera are awesome. They're like Mowgli's parents, Baloo being the fun parent and Bageera being the rather disciplined one. Of course there are the hilarious orangutans, the manipulative snake, the singing vultures, the military and the evil Shere Khan. I'm slightly disappointed that the adorable rhinoceros character was not included (check the deleted scenes). The songs are fun too. My favourite one is the Orangutan number. Overall, 'The Jungle Book' is a lighthearted movie with lots of entertainment and amusement.
Walt Disney's animated classic, 'The Jungle Book,' gets the platinum treatment on its latest appearance on DVD. This wonderful tale, fully restored with vibrant colors and excellent audio, tells the story of Mowgli, a man-cub, and his black panther father-figure, Bagheera (Sebastian Cabot), as the latter attempts to get the boy back to the man-village where he belongs before the wicked and mighty tiger, Shere Khan (George Sanders), can get his claws into him. Along the way they meet up with the one and only jungle VIP, King Louie (wonderfully voiced by Louis Prima), Kaa the python (Sterling Holloway), everybody's favorite bear, Baloo (Phil Harris) and some wisecracking vultures. This platinum edition features an excellent digital restoration, a number of excellent documentaries, games, a visit with 'Rocky the Rhino,' who found his way to the cutting room floor, and plenty of other extras. There's also a passable Jonas Brothers cover of Louis Prima's 'I Wan'na Be Like You' that's sure to attract the attention of pre-teen girls the world over. This particular DVD is also a Disney Movie Rewards disc, meaning that you can gain points for purchasing it. While some squabble over the aspect ratio of the film, I think that the story, music, and characters are far too valuable to pass up because of this. If you don't own 'The Jungle Book' and consider yourself a Disney fan, make sure you buy this disc before Disney takes it away again. Highly recommended.
Now before you die hards spew fire at me for giving this movie three stars let me explain myself. Three stars says you like the movie, but at the same time your not in love with it. That explains my position perfectly. This is a charming movie that I thoroughly enjoyed as a child, and by all means it is superior to most films that are made for children today. My main issue is that I don't feel it is as strong as other classic movies from the Disney vault. It just doesn't compare to a Snow White, Peter Pan, Bambi, Lady And The Tramp, or Mary Poppins. It is good to note that this is a solid children's film that the whole family can enjoy. However, I always hold Disney films under a more critical lense. Disney themselves set the standard for children's films, so they should be judged by the standards they set forth. Jungle Book is a solid movie I am proud to own. Just not as good as Peter Pan or Mary Poppins in this consumers honest opinion.
The Jungle Book (1967)Top 5 - 1967Top 10 - Animated Films of All TimeThe Jungle Book is one of Disney's greatest achievements. Musically, it is wonderful, comically superb and visually it is innovative.The story of the little Indian boy raised by wolves is given a stunning adaptation by the finest animating studio of all time.An engaging, masterful film, deserving significant praise as one of the finest animated pictures ever.The songs 'I wanna be like you' and 'The Bare Necessities' (oscar nominated) are classics and are part of some of the greatest scenes in this wildly exciting film.9/10
In one of Walt Disney's classics, Bagheera the panther offers to take Mowgli, a young boy, to the man village before the evil tiger Shere Khan gets to him.This family adventure is a classic, made so by a beautiful sentimental plot about human emotions, including loyalty, sensitivity and most importantly love. And these human emotions are decoded through the animals of the jungle.With the enchanting and fun loving actions of Baloo the bear and the honest and hard actions of Bagheera, do audiences get that true feel of the human spirit, and the facts of life, to have fun, but to face the truth as well, which is also reflected in some of the most catchy and enjoyable songs ever created for a Disney picture.'The Bear Necessities', 'Trust in me' and 'That's what friends are for' are the brightest gems to have ever been written and are beautifully directed and told through humorous and delightful techniques by the team.Though the plot can be a little slow at times, the characters are all joys to watch, particularly the bad guys Khan and Kaa, who light up the film in their own dark way. Khan's dialogue is perhaps the best ever written for an animated villain and even in my adult years I find him chilling to watch.The film explores the depths of the jungle with a keen interest in different animals, which are explored in a comic fashion from the forgettable elephant to the bored vultures, the Jungle Book simply has everything.From an excellent plot, to the wonderful sing-along songs, it is a true landmark in the animation genre.
Absolutely wonderful. The last animated feature supervised by Walt Disney. Based on the Rudyard Kipling story of Mowgli(voiced by the director's 12 yr old son Bruce Reitherman),a young boy found abandoned in a jungle in India. Mowgli is first raised by wolves before being put out on his own and his adventurous travel through the jungle to find the human village. He learns the meaning of real friendship and trust from inhabitants of the jungle like, Baloo the bear(Voiced by Phil Harris); King Louie of the apes(voiced by Louis Prima)and the hypnotic snake Kaa(voiced by Sterling Holloway). Then there is the wise panther Bagheera(voiced by Sebastion Cabot). Beautiful cinematography and brilliant songs like 'The Bare Necessities', 'I Wan'na Be Like You', 'Trust in Me' and 'That's What Friends Are For'. There is plenty to make you visit THE JUNGLE BOOK again and again. Fun for all ages. Other voices you may or may not recognize: George Sanders, Verna Felton, Lord Tim Hudson and 8 yr old Clint Howard.
This one of Disney's underrated films, and also the last that he himself supervised on - he died around that time. It is a favorite in my family and it always will.The film is based on Rudyard Kipling's classic book and I not one compare with bonified fan of the original book, but I love this film and the animated film version from Russia, even though I do love original stories. And also I love movies/stories that are set in Asia being that the film is set in India.I love the main-title theme, it sets off the mood of the jungle. I love that scene at the beginning where Bagheera 'delivers' baby Mowgli to the wolf family like the stork. I also love the scene with the monkey whacking Baloo (who thought the monkey was Mowgli) on the nose - that's was funny.Overall this is a very entertaining film, and a song-filled celebration of friendship, fun and adventure set in a lush and colorful world; though I am still SHOCKED by the negativity towards it.
The Jungle Book is the first movie that I saw in a theater.I was seven in 1967 and I can still remember being totally captivated by the movie and leaving the theater as if returning from another world.I later watched it several times with my own son starting when he was five years old. I enjoyed it as much as he did, and there is a lot to enjoy about this movie. The story is engaging, the animation is impressive, the music is great, and the characters are charming.This is unquestionably a classic film that has and will endure. It is excellent entertainment for the whole family; worth watching over and over with your children and grand children.
When I first saw this in the re-released in the cinema in the 1990's I wasn't that keen on it but I when saw this again about 6 years ago I enjoyed it. My favourite songs were The Bear Necessities, I Wanna Be Like You, Trust In Me, Thats What Friends Are For and My Own Home. The special features on the 40th anniversary DVD were good. It was sad that Walt Disney and Verna Felton (who voiced one of the elephants) died the year before it was released and never got to see it on the big screen. This is my favourite Disney film, Lady and The Tramp was my favourite before. My favourite part was when the Elephants were singing Colonel Hathi's March.
I first saw this movie as a child when it was first released in the cinemas and then read the book and then, again saw the movie when it was re - released in the 1990's.Bagheera, the panther,roaming in the jungles of India, hears a cry of a baby that has been abandoned and upon reaching the ares, he sees that it is a human baby - man cub. He calls upon all those living nearby, including some wolves to see what can be done to take care of the man cub. They all agree on looking after him but they fear that one day, Shere Khan, the tiger will find out and come after the man cub, whom they have named 'Mowgli.'. One day, they all get together, after being informed that Shere Khan is nearby and they decide to send Mowgli to the man village and Bagheera, the panther should take him back. Enroute, they bump into Baloo the bear and some monkeys, who try to kidnap Mowgli.Inspired by Rudyard, Kipling, who was born and lived in India during the British rule, from his novel 'Mowgli Story,' this is very well adopted for the screen by the master of animations, Walt Disney. And who can forget the song, 'The Bare Necessaities?' The Colonel Haathi and his elephants marching through the jungle and Mowgli meeting Baloo. This is one of the classic Walt Disney movies that cannot be forgotten ever. You can sit and watch this with your children at any time and enjoy it.
From the very first minute that Walt Disney conceived of 'The Jungle Book' he promised for the sakes of general audiences that he'd absolutely Pile Rudyard Kipling's classic book with energetic, toe-tapping, show-stopping music and unforgettable crazy songs though many people around him had doubts for the original novel was apparently quite serious. Throughout his entire career he had proved so many critics and members of his crew wrong, that he Could enhance the familiar yet ageing qualities of the original tellings of many of the world's most beloved classic books by putting his own magical, musical, charming, ambitious nature into them and would then transfer his versions onto film. Not once had he failed to prove the world and the world's opinions wrong in all his life and 'The Jungle Book' was no exception. It's got to be his own happiest, most carefree, most musical adventure movie to date! I haven't read the book yet because I don't even have it though I do have a shortened Ladybird book of it but I haven't read that so I can't judge any inaccuracies or changes to the story but I'm positive there are some alterations - all for the best, of course. I must say that Mowgli is quite rebellious here and impudent. He's always running away when things don't go his way, I've noticed he hits and threatens a lot of his friends and yet they still like him! Baloo is - as everyone sees him - so lovable and kind. For the first time in a Disney film, Sterling Holloway provides the voice for a villain - the murderous Kaa the python snake. For a happy-go-lucky cartoon, I think it's unpleasant how a bonkers snake could randomly get a little boy into his deadly coyles (at night at one point), hypnotize him and prepare to eat him! But at least Mowgli gets the last laugh by causing the python to have a knotted tail and shifting him off his tree. My favourite dance number has got to be with King Louis of the Apes in the ancient ruins ('I Wanna Be Like You') and how all the crazy dancing sends the ruins tumbling. My second favourite is 'Bare Necessities'. In my opinion, the part where the mildly poor comedy comes in most of all is with Colonol Haithi and his elephants and his whiny wife; poor Verna Felton had Winifred the elephant as her final role on film. Colonol Haithi is supposed to be a no-nonsense, snooty leader but my eyes (and ears come to think of it) tell me that he is just a totally absurd loud-mouth. If there is any character in this film who won't stand for any nonsense it's Bagheera! I know that all he really wants is for Mowgli to be safe and therefore return to the man-village but he was certainly a miserable old busybody after the King Louis scene. He had the cheek to break up that special bond between Mowgli and Baloo that so many people have grown to love! Charming! Recently, I bought the twin DVD release of the Platinum Edition of 'The Jungle Book' from Woolworths and it was just amazing! Better than most Disney DVDs today (even though they're not bad themselves)
This has to be one of my favourite Disney movie, ahead of Lion King and Toy Story. I have very fond memories of this classic. Disney's movies these days lack the magic of classics like Jungle Book, 3 or 4 years they would be forgotten. Even the sequel of Jungle Book was woeful and tired and was an insult to the original.This Disney movie had everything. Classic songs, my favourite is the Bare Nessecities, Memorable characters and a decent story.The story of Jungle Book goes like this, Mowgli is abandoned by his Mother as a child and was brought up by Bagheera. Years pass and Mowgli is now a young boy when Bagheera hears that man hater Sher Khan is returning to the jungle. It is decided that the jungle is now unsafe and Mowgli must go to the city to live with his own people. Mowgli and Bagheera start their journey through the jungle where they meet Baloo, who can I say is my favourite character. Baloo refuses to let Mowgli return to the village but goes along with them anyway, cue lots of memorable songs and heaps of fun.On their travels they bump into several interesting characters (Kaa, King Louie, Haathi etc). In the end what happens is Mowgli falls in love and leaves the jungle(please forgive me if I have missed anything). Pure Disney Gold that will live forever.
I'm afraid I cannot comment on the English and original voice-track, for I have not been able to summon a copy (for free) of it without Danish dubbing(as is the custom here... we dub what children would watch, but apart from that, thankfully, we leave the sound as is... I am opposed to the idea, the audio track is part of the original, it's part of the finished product that the film-makers put together, possibly even a part, significant or otherwise, of the director's vision), but for any Dane reading this who hasn't already seen it... some of the voice acting isn't too bad, and it features Ove Sprogøe, in at least one, possibly several, parts(including Bagheera). I have not seen the sequel, and I don't believe I've seen any of the Disney sequels to their animated features, save for Jaffar Returns(and I was a kid, less trustworthy judgment). I haven't read the book, either. Or seen any of the other versions of the story, including the 94 version(not that I'd want to, Sommers isn't exactly my favorite director... he helps furnish the bottom of that list). But enough of that, on to the film. The animation still holds up remarkably well. It's dynamic, dramatic and comic, when it tries to be any of the three. There did seem to be some reused footage(in a film that doesn't even reach a full hour and a half, no less), but that can be forgiven. The songs are catchy enough. Shere Khan makes a pretty cool villain. The plot is fine, though some of the developments have simple writing. At one point, our heroes are fortunate enough that an opponent takes the trouble to sing his plan while they are close enough to overhear it... not sure even Bond could get away with that one, but maybe middle-aged to old men with dreams of world domination or destruction make dreadful performing artists. The humor contains slapstick. Editing and shot composition are well done. I recommend this to fans of Disney cartoons, but from what I have heard of what it's like, *not* Rudyard Kipling's novel. 7/10
Walter Elias Disney made his finest masterpiece. THE JUNGLE BOOK is stunning fresh and unique. Characters so unbelievably hilarious that I personally feel Kaa or Col. Hathi deserved Academy Award nominations (or even wins!) for their memorable characters.In the movie/book, Mowgli the Man-Cub is ,made to go back to his own kind by Bagheera the panther but this turns haywire when Baloo finds him and takes him on a tour about the Bare Necessities Of Life.This leads to hilarious encounter with the mangy monkeys of King Louie and a frightful encounter with Shere Khan the tiger and also the icing of the cake, the encounters with Kaa the snake. It's so wonderfully funny and well-executed that one viewing seems never enough.This is certainly a bare necessity in your collection
'The Jungle Book' encompasses everything that I always wanted to see in an old hand-drawn animated film by Walt Disney. I saw many of Disney's masterpieces in my childhood, and now recently, I have begun to start watching them again several years since I last saw them. Take 'The Jungle Book' for instance. It was one of my favorite Disney movies in my childhood, and yet I hadn't seen it in years until just a few moments ago. And now that I'm older and know more about the movie, I appreciate it and enjoy it even more than I believe I ever did as a kid.First off, there is the absolute amazing animation done by Disney's studio. If I'm not mistaken, they were still using hand-drawn animation when they made 'The Jungle Book' and if my guess is correct, it was masterful. It's amazing that artists could be so talented, so precise, and yet so creative at the same time to make things look so vivid and realistic. And they also bring depth and characterization to their 2-Dimensional characters with only a script to base their work off. All of the characters in 'The Jungle Book' are amazingly created and fitted into the story, adapted with talented actors to perform the voices. And Disney used authenticity with several voices. The voice of Mowgli was performed by an actor of about the same age as the character. The other voices of the heedful Bagheera, the take-it-easy Baloo, sinister and even more so comical Kaa, and then Shere Khan, one of the most memorable Disney villains of all. George Sanders provided a perfect, purring and cold-hearted voice for the character, ultimately increasing the effect of the tiger to make up for his lack of screen time. Lines such as 'you're trying my patience' and 'You should know that everyone runs from Shere Khan' always make me think in my mind: this was perfect! After Shere Khan, my favorite character is Kaa the python with the hypnotic gaze. And he's not a frightening villain, but a funny one and therefore, a lovable villain.There is one minor flaw in 'The Jungle Book' which I find in a lot other Disney movies. Everything it this film is perfect, except for the fact that its running length is just not equal to its entertainment. In other words, it's about ten or twenty minutes too short. But I suppose this is justifiable for its age. Movies at its time weren't all that long and hand-drawn movies take a long time to put together because of the hand-drawn animation. Yet, this did not impact my enjoyment on the film as I watched it. The bottom line for this review is that 'The Jungle Book' is one of the finest, if not the finest, of all of Walt Disney's films. It's too bad he didn't live long enough to see this one go to theaters and see the audiences cherish and love it.
Genre: Cartoon, based on Rudyard Kipling's book, jungle.Main characters: Mowgli (Bruce Reitherman), Bagheera (Sebastian Cabot), Baloo (Phil Harris) and Shere Khan (George Sanders).What happens: A panther called Bagheera finds a little 'mancub' in a basket in a broken boat. Bagheera knows that the baby would perish without any care. He then decides to take the boy to the wolf pack...My thoughts: For the young, this will be a pleasurable film. They will instantly fall in love with the characters and be excited for them all, watching this film over and over again, maybe enjoying it a little more each time. Then, as they grow older, they may prefer other films and find some parts of this a little 'eerie' as I did (of course, some may not pay attention to the weirdly spooky music which appears at times). They may get scared of Shere Khan. Then, they may read the book and realise what a floppy mess of the book this is. They may not like it for a long while afterwards, constantly reading the beautiful book instead. Then, at golden teenager hood, they may slightly go back into this film again, watching it more often than usual, reading the book as well. For the rest, I do not know. All this happened to me and I wouldn't be surprised if it happened to at least one person in the world (for one thing, SOO many people have watched this).This film is better for you to watch if you're in a VERY good mood. Otherwise, it kind of gives a flop. Luckily for me, I do not find it as spooky as I did for a few years and I like parts. I see Colonel Haiti as a tribute to Rudyard Kipling, as he enjoyed writing books about the army. Mowgli in this is basically a spoilt little young boy, not noble unlike in the books. Baloo will be likely not to impress those who have read the books as he is a bit silly. Although him teaching Mowgli happens in the book and he is a goodie through and through (although in the book Baloo teaches Mowgli the laws of the jungle). Bagheera, as the film starts, is very likable but then his performance fails into about twenty minutes of the film as he starts to become fed up with Mowgli. The wolves are good, although they have a much bigger part in Rudyard Kipling's work and the mother wolf in the book is fiercer than her mate, unlike in this film. Kaa has the character of Tabaqui the jackal's and he is not a nice character (although Sterling Holloway does a good job, I have to admit). Shere Khan is much more evil than in the book and he is more of a 'main character'. King Louie is pointless really, I do not see why Wolfgang Reitherman had to put in a dancing Orangutang that wanted to make fire. I am very grateful for the Beatles vultures, they CERTAINLY do not appear in the books and they are good in this. The title of this film is not very good to the book, it would be better being called something like 'Adventure of Mowgli' or 'Story of Mowgli'. In 'The Jungle Book' many more characters appear beside our ones here.Recommended to: People who HAVE NOT read the book (after you've watched the film please read it!), very young children and maybe grown-ups. 6 and a half out of ten.
The 19th animated Disney classic is, like the other Disney classics produced in the 60's, not one of their greatest. Yet, it is entertaining and great fun.'The Jungle Book' is an appeal to life and a hymn to life. They never say the words 'Hakuna Matata' here, but there's no doubt that the 'Hakuna Matata' philosophy from 'The Lion King' is the same philosophy that we see here: a life full of joy, fun, no worries and which the problems are to be forgotten. In fact, it isn't any lie to tell that 'The Lion King' was inspired by the idea of this movie.'The Jungle Book' is a traditional animated Disney classic. Although some of its designs look simple, the artwork is very good and full of 'life', following the classic Disney's standards. The songs are full of life and rhythm, making one wanna dance at their sound (that's the case of 'Bear Necessities' and 'I Wanna Be Like You'). Speaking of this, I'm surprised that initially the song 'Bear Necessities' wasn't going to be in the movie - I'm glad they changed their mind, because this song is so joyful and very important: after all, it symbolizes the main idea of the movie.The characters aren't the very best on Disney, but they're still good enough. Baloo (the bear) adds a lot to this movie. He is a very cool bear, not to mention humorous and jolly. Baloo is probably the best character of this movie. And all this charm is combined with the inimitable voice of the legendary Phil Harris.Bagheera is a more serious character than a funny one. Bagheera is wise and, to tell the truth, it's pleasant to see a black panther being portrayed as a wise character for once instead of another owl. Bagheera is voiced by one of Disney's legends, Sebastian Cabot (at his best here).Mowgli is an alright man cub, but strangely his voice changes very much: during a while he has the voice of a teenager and suddenly he speaks with a more 'babyish' voice - perhaps a sign that he was voiced by more than one actor? The same thing happens with Arthur from 'The Sword in the Stone'.Kaa (the snake) and Shere Khan (the tiger) are the villains, but their role is small. Kaa is voiced by the unforgettable Sterling Holloway, while Shere Khan is voiced by George Sanders. Shere Khan is mean but cool, because of his delicate and charming voice (very much like Scar from 'The Lion King').Colonel Hathi is an interesting elephant. Everybody knows the myth that «an elephant never forgets». Well, Colonel Hathi is an elephant that forgets! But that is exactly what makes him so funny. King Louie is a cool orangutan, brilliantly voiced by Louis Prima. Rama is a loving and caring wolf, voiced by Ben Wright. An unusual story, great animation, the designs, sceneries/backgrounds, the jungle/forests of India, the soundtrack, generally good characters (apart the vultures, which I consider boring characters), the friendship between Mowgli/Baloo and classic humor make this movie.This movie is known for being the last one with Walt Disney himself involved. Sadly, he died during its production and never got to see the final result and its success. But he will never be forgotten and, even after his death, the «9 Old Men» knew how to keep faithful to Walt's spirit in the following movies because of their long-time experience with 'uncle Walt'.
I've always loved Disney movies, but just some of them becomes 'classics' and others becomes embarrassing childhood memories. So was the case with 'The Jungle Book'. I loved this film a kid and saw it several times. But I found it childish and senseless when I became older.I recently saw this movie again and still liked it. It's enjoyable and one of Disney's funniest features ever. The mood is at times a little bit darker comparing to the other Disney features from the 60's, certainly because of the jungle settings, but the film mixture well the darks and funny moments. The film biggest strength is the enjoyable characters. Now my favorites are the elephants, the monkeys and especially the vultures. Shere Khan is a great villain. Kaa is also funny sometimes, but his song is extremely boring. Bagheera is the only main character that I don't like, while Baloo was my favorite character as a child, by the way.The animation is great. Of course not so stunning like 'Tarzan', considering that this picture was made in 1967, but the jungle is beautifully drawn. The dialog is successful and the songs are very catchy (and have became one of Disney's most memorable tunes). But I didn't like the score.HERE COMES SOMETHIN THAT COULD BE CONSIDERED AS A SPOILER: The story doesn't have the same scholastic lessons and logical structure like for example 'Lion King' or 'Tarzan' and that's why I found this movie senseless for a while... It's also a shame that the greatest characters doesn't get enough screen time. But it doesn't ruin the movie.PS: Have you noticed that 'The Jungle Book', 'Lion King' and 'Tarzan' (who all have jungle settings) have a rainy sequence after the big climax?)SPOILERS OVER. 'Jungle Book' is a enjoyable picture with good moments and the climax in the movie is one of my favorites. I can't wait to buy the 40 anniversary edition!
This is not my very favorite, but it IS among the very best of Disney's animated classics. With unforgettable characters, endearing dialog, and an irascible wit that permeates throughout, Wolfgang Reitherman's The Jungle Book features some of the best animation, voice parts, and story in the Disney vaults.The original songs are still as enigmatic as ever, and so are the characters. This is one of my very favorites, although not the top. That position belongs to Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, but the Jungle Book presses a very close second.If you have kids, are a kid at heart, or collect Disney features, this is a must have in the collection. It is a beautiful coming of age movie, for both boys and girls.It rates a 9.8/10 from...the Fiend :.
I was glancing through the top 250 list and saw that this film was not listed. I think this was the last film done by Disney himself. By all means, it not only is my favorite Disney film, it also is one of my favorite films ever. The songs, the story, the drawings, the colors...A pure Master Piece. I enjoyed each second of it, and I still do up to this day! 40 years after having seen the film!!! So I thought I would at least cast my modest vote for it. The version II, done by the Disney studios alone, is a sheer disaster and does not compare in any way to the original.
For the most part, 'The Jungle Book' is another situation where Disney took a classic novel and padded it with songs. I liked the 1994 movie because it focused on colonialism. This version piques my interest nowadays because of who provided the voices: Sebastian Cabot, Louis Prima and Sterling Holloway to name a few. To add to that, the vultures were a semi-tribute to the Beatles; I wouldn't have expected Disney to do a tribute to them.But for the most part, I think that Rudyard Kipling (happy birthday, Rudyard!) wouldn't really approve of how they sanitized the story*. If we accept it as brief entertainment, then it's OK. Is it racist how they portray East Indians? Maybe, but as long as we understand that, then it's OK. After all, there are lots of bare necessities out there.*As another example of Disney sanitizing a classic story, there's 'Cinderella'. In the original story, the stepsisters mutilated their own feet to fit them into the glass slipper.
Watching this as a much older man then when i first viewed it all those years ago as a young child, I found I was taken back to that magical place again, and I have to admit I cried at the end when Mowgli has to join the humansIt still as funny as I had remembered, and th animation was still amazing to look at, even more vibrant than before. It's a remarkable film in which even the villains - the snake and tiger - weren't too evil or frightening. Thus, little kids should be okay with this. The movie;s main song,is 'The Bare Necessitites,' a catchy tune that is still fun to hear but my favourite song in the whole is the song the snake sings'trust in me' i still know the lyrics to this day, and I just love the lisping character voice.Go buy it, go rent it and enjoy it.
In case you're wondering, I'm 25 and my favourite films of all time include Heat, Once Upon a Time in the West and Apocalypse Now. This is just a pointer to how, considering the film I'm writing about, eclectic a true film fan's taste has to be. I'll start with one statement: this film should be compulsory viewing for every child. If, at the end of this film, you're face is not permanently disfigured from smiling, there's something wrong with you. Everything about this film is enjoyable. The characters so loving, the songs so memorable; everything is so uplifting. I first saw this as a child and right then I loved it, but not until you reach a certain age do you realise how much a film can affect you. Every character has something about them that you cannot fail to love. Baloo and King Louie are obvious - they are there for light relief, but even the sinister Kaa the snake and Sheer Khan the tiger are lovable in their own ways. Mainly I put this down to the voice cast and the way they portray their characters. Everybody with a good knowledge of film knows that Tom Hanks was the voice of Woody in Toy Story and that Mike Myers was Shrek, but who knows who provided the voice of Baloo? It shouldn't matter and, as is the case with The Jungle Book, it doesn't. The characters are what is important. Character and plot are the only things that matter in great films and this film has that theory at its bedrock. If you have a child, sit them down to watch this and I guarantee they will be transfixed. I'm 25 and I make sure I watch this every 12 months. Age wise I'm an adult, but I'm still a child when I see this on screen, and that's the way it should be.
I have all of the best Disney movies, animated and live action both. Jungle Book is the absolute best - movies, animation, backgrounds - it can't be beat. The music - 10/10. I heartily recommend it and I'm 76 years young. I remember Phil Harris (Baloo) with fondness; Louis Prima (The Monkey King)- an excellent musician; George Sanders (Shere Khan) - the most wonderful villain ever; Sterling Holloway (Kaa) - a snake of the highest order. Such a wonderful selection of voices for the characters and personalities. NObody 'swings' like Baloo. I especially loved Mowgli's expressions upon meeting the girl-man-child. The animators got his 'stunned' expression perfectly.
'The Jungle Book' is a classic Disney film that will go down in history as an important milestone in the history of Disney animation. For starters, this was the last animated film that Walt Disney himself personally supervised. This film ended Walt Disney's animated features with a bang, a fine film that's an improvement over the previous Disney animated feature, 'The Sword in the Stone'. The film is not without its flaws, but it is an effort that is much more confident than the previous Disney animated films that came after the box office disaster that was 'Sleeping Beauty'. Disney took several liberties with Rudyard Kipling's classic. It was originally planned to be a very faithful adaptation of the two books, with Bill Peet outdoing himself on the original treatment. The complex, and rather dark version of 'The Jungle Book' that he wrote screamed potential, but Walt did not approve and Peet left the studio.The result is a more comedic musical take on the books, and the liberties taken with the book are there. This allowed the animators to outdo themselves, which they did not do with 'The Sword in the Stone'. The character changes allowed the animators to have a lot of fun with the film, and it can be easily seen. It's more exuberant than the previous two films and it boasts a strong selection of songs. The plot is episodic, but it works for the most part. The characters are well-developed and the animators masterfully get the audience to love them. Baloo is a delight to watch, and Shere Khan might be one of Disney's finest villains with his sophistication and his attitude. Kaa has comic genius written all over. King Louie is probably the best character, and his musical number 'I Wanna Be Like You' definitely shows it.One surprising element in the film is how very 1960s-esque it is. Four great vultures resemble The Beatles, and being a Beatles fan, I personally love that. There's some 60s-style slang and dialogue like that. It somewhat makes the film a bit dated, especially with its then-celebrity voice cast. However, the cast perfectly fits each character, so that's not a major complaint. Everything works well, except for one thing. In the 1960s, Walt Disney was losing interest in animation after 'Sleeping Beauty''s performance in 1959 and his hatred of Xerography, used on Disney films since 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians'. Animation from other Disney films and shorts is recycled, and parts of the film feel slightly rushed. However, Walt wanted the animators to deliver a great picture, and that they most certainly did.'The Jungle Book' is a musical masterpiece and an important film in animation history, and it's success after the death of Walt Disney convinced the studio to keep going at a time when animation seemed to be on its way out as the 1970s rolled in. Despite some slight flaws (some dated elements, some lazy moments and a couple other flaws with the story), 'The Jungle Book' succeeds on all fronts. I can excuse these criticisms, and personally for me, the film is one of my favorite Disney films.A 9.8 out of 10.
1967 had brought us a wonderful animated feature from Disney called 'The Jungle Book.' It had taken place in the jungle; there was a boy in the jungle, and he hung out with some wild, musical animals! The two I know the most are Baloo and Shere Khan; they would end up being characters in 'TaleSpin' in the early 90s. (Oh, and don't forget Louie, too!!!!!) The most memorable part is the song 'Bare Necessities,' which gets us into a 'jungle boogie' while basking in the greatness this film has to offer!!!!!'The Jungle Book' is marvelous. It's a great family film, and a sad thing to say: this was released around the same time the man of this company, Walt Disney, had died. May he rest in peace.(1901-1967)10/10
This was the last cartoon feature Disney was directly involved with before his death, and it is one of his better films. The animation appears a bit dated, in large part because it appears to use the Xeroxing method, but that doesn't detract from the great story Disney had created, or the voice actors who add life to this movie. The film's standout is obviously Phil Harris as Baloo the Bear. A veteran of old time radio, such as 'The Jack Benny Show,' Harris brought his comic talents to the fore and provided a very lively portrayal of happy-go-lucky, free-spirited lovable oaf, which is a welcome contrast to the cute anthropomorphic animals Disney had a penchant for in 'Bambi,' 'Cinderlla,' and 'Dumbo.' The guy who does the voice of King Louie is also great, as is Sterling Holloway as the goofy villain Kaa; you might remember Holloway better as the original Winnie the Pooh. The Sherman Brothers did very well with lots of good songs, such as 'I Want to be Like You' and 'Bare Necessities' This is a great animated film for the whole family to enjoy.
Watching this as a middle-aged adult, I found out, was a far cry from seeing this as a very young adult, or as a kid. When I last saw it about 10 years ago, it was okay but nothing like I had remembered. It not only wasn't as funny as I had remembered, but it dragged a bit. It's still a nice, harmless film in which even the villains - the snake and tiger - weren't too evil or frightening. Thus, little kids should be okay with this. Actually, they should love this film.The movie is known for its theme song, 'The Bare Necessitites,' a catchy tune that is still fun to hear. Phil Harris, as ''Baloo,' does a great job with that song. There are other fine songs here as well.
In this movie a boy who has been raised in the jungle and lived with the animals, must now leave to join his own 'people.' The story centers around a panther (Bahgeera) and a bear (Baloo) who agree to take the boy to the man-village, and an assortment of other creatures with their own agendas. The beach-bum bear and the up-tight panther's verbal sparring is classic. The social commentary (that went over my head when I was a kid) is funny too. The Jazzy orangatang (King Louis) 'I've reached the top and had to stop' and the bored vultures 'I dunno, whata' you wanna do?' are great. I saw this movie when I was a kid, and loved it. My sister and I got the LP and we played it all the time. Now, decades later, I find myself singing (or humming) the songs to this movie. Many kids now-a-days are unfamiliar with this movie (at least this version of the story) but they enjoy even my (amateur attempts) at singing these great songs. There is definitely something about this version. This movie is truly a classic!
''The Jungle Book'' is one of my favorite movies from Disney. Until today, I have the game to play and the tape from Disney. :) Anyway, this movie is based in''''Mowgli'' by Rudyard Kiplings, where a little boy is raised by wolves in the forest. Mowgli is very happy with his animal family, until the day he needs to return to civilization because his life is in great danger: Shere Kahn, a big and evil tiger, hates humans, and if he finds Mowgli in his way, he will not be afraid to kill the boy. During the way to reach the human village with Bagheera, Mowgli meets new animals and makes friendship with Baloo a big and fat bear who loves to have fun and has a bad reputation in the forest because of that.
The Jungle Book was of a nice crop of Disney films I would watch numerous times as a kid, to the point where I would have not even the songs, but full passages of dialog, memorized to heart. It's the last film Walt Disney himself was involved in, and it shows, sort of. But it also shows Disney moving along on its legs into its quiet, and under-appreciated, period of films in the immediately post-Disney's death world of the 70's. If you read the book it's not much like this one aside from the same characters and some plot points. But what it is is a film that survives well on its own feats of strength- catchy songs (including the very popular 'Bare Necessities, though Louis Prima's song is the best of the bunch and the Vulture's song the funniest), and a lot of fun action thrown in with some good, everlasting pathos. Obviously, kids wont need to take lessons on how to escape from the monkeys or from a Bengal Tiger. It does carry enough of parts from real life that kids can take as piece of mind; the coming-of-age idea is in there with the 'man-village' to be sure. And throughout the film itself is a technical knockout, with great visuals and animation, colorful characters (in more ways than one), and spectacular voice talent that's rarely gotten this good in just pure ensemble form. I mean, where else will you get Clint Howard as a baby elephant and Sterling Holloway as a snake? Phil Harris is also indispensable and about as memorable as possibly can be here. Maybe its best quality is that it isn't too much stuck in its time and place (save for the vultures being like the Beatles crosses with Marty- 'what do you wanna do'). It's all in an exuberant, only-out-to-entertain-you style and in solid storytelling that the film is successful, as a family film and as just a terrific piece of entertainment in and of itself. Probably among the best in that crossover period of Disney's from the traditional '9 Old Men' animation period and its later renaissance.
If I had to choose my all time favorite classic Disney film, I put them in to 2 groups, between the older & newer film, this would be my favorite of the classic/older films.Why? The music!! The Sherman Brothers out did themselves with this one, just like they did with the Oscar winning music from 1964?s ?Mary Poppins?.Without question, my all time favorite Disney song 'I Wanna Be Like You' with Louis Prima.The music from this film I can play over & over again.Then, the scenes in the film with the music I can play over & over as well.Disney NEEDS RIGHT NOW, A SPECIAL EDITION DVD WITH EXTRAS FOR THIS FILM.No doubt in 2007 they SHOULD release a 40th anniversary edition on DVD. Will purchase it promptly.Great voice talent for this film as well.
'The Jungle Book' is a Disney animated film about a boy who was raised by wild animals, and this film is basically a musical representation of his time with these animals and to celebrate his growing up, into an adult and to leave the wonderful animal world behind. Later, Baloo the bear and some of the other characters of this film would go on to be a part of a cartoon series 'Tale Spin' on the Disney channel. Regrettably, I did not enjoy this Disney animation. The only thing that it had going for it was the music. It's an easily-forgotten Disney animation, and I would not particularly recommend this film. Try 'Bambi' or 'Lady and the Tramp'.
Walt Disney's surprisingly flat animated retelling of the Rudyard Kipling books has a practical panther and a devil-may-care bear attempting to return 10-year-old man-cub Mowgli back to his people, continually thwarted by various comical characters and the villainous Shere Khan (majestically voiced by George Sanders). Only two good songs (the Oscar-nominated 'The Bare Necessities', and Kaa the Snake's 'Trust in Me') highlight the music score, and though there's fine voice-work from Sebastian Cabot and Sterling Holloway and some lovely background detail, much of the slapstick is short on inspiration. Phil Harris gives his Baloo lots of groovy flourish, but he's an 'oobie-doobie' product of his time. **1/2 from ****
The Jungle Book premiered on October 18, 2 days before my birth day, I wasn't born in 1967, but The Jungle Book is Disney's best classic with The Lion King.The backgrounds and music blend in beautifully.The characters are compelling.The story rocks and it never gets boring at all.The box-office success of the initial 1967 release along with the 1978, 1984, and 1990 re-releases have garnered it a total of $141 million domestically and about $600-700 million in adjusted budget.The first time I saw this movie was when I got it on video in 1997. Then I got the original 1991 video release.The Jungle Book and The Lion King remain in 1st place as a tie, I can't pick!
I have loved this movie since it came out! Not only do I think it is this the best Disney animated movie (Shrek is a close 2nd, but definitely 2nd), it is the best animated movie period. It has so much going for it: a great heart warming story everyone will love, fantastic and really enticing music and songs, and absolutely marvelous voices to match each of the main characters. The outstanding voices are George Sanders for Sher Kahn the tiger, which is such a full and powerful voice (you can almost feel the tiger's presence when he speaks), Sebastian Cabott for the panther Bagherra that is in your face always, Phil Harris for that rascal bear Bahlu, and Louis Prima for the orangutan King Louie, with there marvelous beat and song throughout the palace scenes. And of course, there is Moglie's voice, which is fitting and pleasant, but not stellar like almost all the others. The ending is still befitting in today's world, 40 years later!
Another true classic from Disney, a film almost everyone saw when they were small, and one of the few which they all remember. Based loosely on Kipling's novel, The Jungle Book tells of Mowgli- a boy raised in the jungle by wolves, hearkening back to the Romulus and Remus legend. Mowgli is sent back to humanity by the wolves as Shere-Kahn, a monstrous tiger is coming, and enjoys the taste of 'man-cubs'. along the way, Mowgli meets Baloo the singin', dancin' bear who teaches him the Bear Necessities of life, Bagheera the panther who protects him, King Louie an Orang-utan and Kaa the hypnotic snake. But Shere-Kahn is on their trail.The Jungle Book has many memorable characters and musical numbers, directed brilliantly into the plot. The animation is a success and it is a story which everyone can enjoy. The funniest moment, for unanswerable reasons is King Louie using his own arms as a skipping rope. I've always found the ending a sad one as I didn't want Mowgli to return to the apparent civilisation; the jungle seems much more fun. Most of the colonial themes are of course absent from the original story, but it is not difficult to read these into the film. However, why bother, as it is not meant to be seen in such a way. Every child will enjoy this, less to enjoy for the older viewer compared with later films.7.5 out of 10
This is one of the best Disney cartoon films ever made, based on the novel by Rudyard Kipling. A baby, or 'man cub' is found by Bagheera the Panther (Sebastian Cabot). He decides to take it to a wolf family to look after him. As time goes by this man cub called Mowgli (Bruce Reitherman, son of the director) has grown with the wolves. Until the wolves discover that Sheer Khan the Tiger (George Sanders) had returned to the jungle. Now Bagheera is insistent on Mowgli returning to the Man Village where he will be safe from the Tiger. Mowgli is too happy in the jungle and wants to stay with his new found friend, the film's highlight, Baloo the Bear, voiced by singer Phil Harris. Unfortunately many parts of the jungle take Mowgli away, e.g. the monkeys. Another highlight of the film is King Louie, voiced by singer Louis Prima. Phil Harris has the good Oscar nominated song 'The Bare Necessities' and Louis Prima has the song 'I Want To Be Like You'. It was number 27 on The 100 Greatest Musicals, it was number 19 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, it was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons, it was number 7 on The Ultimate Film, and it was number 53 on The 100 Greatest Films. Outstanding!
When I saw this movie first, I enjoyed it. It was funny, the animation was good and the songs was enjoyable. Yet I must say that the movie is very roughly based on the actual book by Rudyard Kipling, which is far better than the movie.If it stood to me, the actual story is far from a children's basic bedtime story. Many important factors was excluded from the movie, which I am very disappointed of. Kaa, who originally was a wise old python and one of Mowgli's best friends, was turned into a greasy bad guy, helping out Shere Khan. It's almost like he took over the role of Tabaqui the jackal, who didn't appear in the movie at all. Akela, Raksha and the rest of the wolves, did hardly have any part in the movie, unlike in the book. Also, the originally smart, bold and righteous Bagheera was completely out of character, and so was Baloo the bear. From a strict old teacher of the wolf pups, he turned into a carefree goof ball without any connection to the Seonee Pack at all. I suppose that the added character King Louie, only was a comic relief.Of course, this is meant to be a children's movie, but still I was very disappointed when I saw it as child. I just wish Disney had followed the book more properly.I can recommend this movie to people who just wants to have mere fun out of it (because this is a classic Disney movie, with a lot of fun!), but fans of the book shouldn't get their hopes up.
I am the daughter of Jimmy Vincent who was the drummer for the Louis Prima Band off and on covering about 25 years.Our family has a huge picture in the living room with Louis Prima, Jimmy Vincent and a few others who supplied the voices for the monkeys in the Jungle Book. My dad at age 81 still talks about making the movie. I only wish IMDb would add Jimmy Vincent's name to the credits.During the making of the movie Jimmy Vincents' son Andrew was bitten by a snake and almost died. During his stay at the hospital, Disney sent Andrew life sized caricature's of the characters in the Jungle Book. Once Andrew recuperated he donated the caricature's to the children's burn unit. A huge thank you to Disney!This movie is a classic and will be watched and enjoyed for many years to come.JoJo
I bought the DVD for my kid to watch it. She likes to watch it everyday and by her side I too sit and watch. Slowly I myself like the songs and the animation done for that. The elephant parade, chimapnzees dances are always fun to watch. I am happy to give 10/10. The animation now is changed to complete computer graphics which almost resembles the actual movie. But IMHO the man made animation are great than those. Sometimes the imperfections are great to watch. If my daughter does not feel good or she resists to take her food, we just play this movie and everything would be OK. Now I am started collecting old animation movies like this and hope that she enjoys that too.
The Jungle Book, one of Disney's ultimate classics, it has great characters, an awesome story and terrific animation. I'll admit it, I adore Disney movies, I could never choose just one Disney movie as my favorite, I love them all for so many different reasons. The Jungle Book is one of my fav's though, after buying the new release on DVD, I realized that I love this movie now more than ever. The reason that I think this movie is so wonderful is because of the characters, they just brought so much life to the story and really made this into a wonderful Disney classic.Mowgli is found in a basket as a baby in the deep jungles. Bagheera, the panther who discovers the boy, promptly takes him to a wolf who has just had cubs. She raises him along with her own cubs and Mowgli soon becomes well acquainted to jungle life. Mowgli is shown ten years later, visiting the wolves and getting his face licked eagerly when he arrives. That night, when the wolf tribe learns that Shere Khan, a man-eating tiger, has returned to the jungle, they realize that Mowgli must be taken to the man village, to protect him and those around him. Bagheera volunteers to escort him back. They leave that very night, but Mowgli is determined to stay in the jungle and loses Bagheera. Kaa, the hungry python, hypnotizes Mowgli into a deep and peaceful sleep, traps him tightly in his coils, and tries to devour him, but comically fails. The next morning, Mowgli tries to join the elephant patrol. Bagheera finds Mowgli and they argue; Mowgli runs away from Bagheera. The boy soon meets up with the fun-loving bear Baloo, who shows Mowgli the fun of having a care-free life and promises not to take him to the man village. Mowgli now wants to stay in the jungle more than ever. Shere Khan is after Mawgli though and won't rest 'till he kills him. Seriously, these are some of the most memorable characters in Disney history, we have Baloo, the care free party bear that just wants to have fun and only needs the 'bear' necessities of life. Begheera, a panther, that we've all known this kind of person, the one that just wants to get down to business and get as much done as quickly as possible, the party pooper, but deep down still has that heart. And one of Disney's most memorable villains of all time, Shere Khan, voiced by George Sanders, classy, sassy, menacing and vicious, I wouldn't be surprised if he was Scar's inspiration(the lion villain in The Lion King). If you haven't seen The Jungle Book, just buy it, believe me, it's worth the money. It's a classic fun animated film that I will love forever, still to this day I will always sing along to Bear Necessities, it's a good time.10/10

**** *YEAR_1970

This is one of Disneys most bland and unoriginal animated movies created. This movie sincerely misses Walt Disney, it seems like a failed copy of what the creators believed Walt would do. It pulls from 101 Dalmatians but misses the creativity and effort put behind that film. The film contains poor characters without any distinctive qualities. The story itself is bland and already done better in 101 Dalmatians. Thomas O'Malley is a clear Baloo recreation. The Villain has bland motivation and comes off as incompetent which doesn't match the characters deviant actions. I found the scenes containing Hautecourt and Lafayette were the most enjoyable parts of the film. These are the only scenes containing any energy and excitement. The songs are decent and catchy, however all this cannot save this movie from its complete forget-ability. This is one film in the Disney catalog that doesn't need to be seen.
I haven't seen the Aristocats in full since the time I saw it in the cinema on release, but I did own(well, still do!) an edited silent Super 8mm version that was played to death!Time moves on, and I bought it on blu ray in order to watch it again, and the first ten minutes or so were a shock, to see it so clearly made it look strange for a while, but I soon got used to it.Then as the story got into gear, I found myself smiling and remembering why I love this animation.The characterisations throughout are superb, all fleshed out into believable characters that you really get to know and like.At 78 minutes, there isn't a dull moment, and I did want it to go on for longer, but I left the film with a huge smile on my face, and a realisation that I'll be watching this again and again.Just wonderful.
It's a mesh of Lady and the Tramp and 101 Dalmatians, except with:Bad Music
A pathetic villain; nothing really at stake
A plot that stops dead midway
Did I mention the villain sucks.But I wouldn't say it's THE most pointless Disney movie, at least it brings some new ideas to the Table.The most pointless is Tarzan, which is quite literally Disney Jungle Book if that movie lacked a personality (especially the main character) and a focus. Throw in the Pocahontas villain and Dumbo's Mother & outcast son archetype that barely gets any development and BAM! You have a movie now on upgrade Native 4K and Dolby Vision coming soon on Disney 4k ultra hd release October 2021.
Another one from the alphabetical run through Disney Plus, 'The Aristocats' is one that I do have a little bit of history with, in the sense I'd seen it a few times before, but remembered almost nothing about the plot. I found that, despite aging references, this was a lot of fun.Retired singer Madame Adelaide Bonfamille (Hermoine Baddeley) plans to leave her house and fortune to her cat Duchess (Eva Gabor) and her three kittens Berlioz (Dean Clark), Marie (Liz English) and Toulouse (Gary Dublin). This is very disappointing for her Butler, Edgar (Roddy Maude-Roxby) who had hoped to inherit the estate and indeed would, should something happen to the cats. Driven by greed, Edgar snatches the felines and releases them into the French countryside, confident that he's seen the last of them - but with the aid of streetwise alley cat O'Malley (Phil Harris) the family head back to the city.Whilst I don't have the love in my heart that I have for other Disney productions, I did feel like there was plenty to enjoy about 'The Aristocats'. I liked the animation. There's a rough, sketchy hand drawn style to the film that made up for in dynamism what it lacked in polish. The vocal performances are good, with a lot of classic Disney voice actors being utilised. Phil Harris, obviously, and Eva Gabor, who would return for 'The Rescuers'. George Lindsey and Pat Buttram would reappear in various other films, as would Bill Thompson, whose career with Disney went back as far as 'Pinocchio'. Two people leaving though would be the Sherman brothers, as the film marks the last animated Disney feature they would work on for 30 years. They left on a positive note though, convincing Maurice Chevalier to come out of retirement to sing the title song, and the whole cast to perform on the Jazzy and memorable 'Ev'rybody Wants to be a Cat'.Indeed, it's the Jazz references that age the film now, but that energy and ethos prop up a story that is perhaps a little undercooked and lacking in some more interesting beats. Compared to some of the other films in Disney's history, it's certainly not top of the tree, but as I'm finding these films are a mixed bag and so far, 'The Aristocats' is one of the more watchable ones.
This was the first film in a (selective) Disney marathon that I watched with friends. I was amazed by how thoroughly sweet this film is. The music, the setting, the dialogue (in which the titular aristocratic decency shines in the most adorable manner), and the overall lightheartedness. This is simply one of those Disney films that one should watch on a rainy day, because this film will most definitely add some sunshine.
The music is good, but the plot is very simple and not very memorable; I recommend it to young children.
I love most of the characters, and of course the songs are basically perfect! But.... the rest is dull. The villain is also as lame as one can get.
I don't know how it happened, but in 2020 it was the first time when I managed to watch this marvelous animated movie.I've noticed that the majority of people here has been divided into to two groups: underestimated or overestimated cartoon. As for me it's like a pleasant discovery that I missed in my childhood.First of all I really enjoyed the style of animation, how the cartoon is drawn: all these sketchy lines somehow were brought to life. And also I liked the background of the movie (if I can call it so), how Paris, its streets and cafes were animated, colors. Very beautiful. Magnifique!In the next place I would like mention 'The Aristocats' characters and their sense of humor. So gracious and polite Duchess, extremely cute and lively kittens, noble alley cat Thomas O'Malley, sincere friend Roquefort (seems, that he is Sherlock Holmes at heart), talented jazz cats etc.But to be honest my favourites were twin-sisters British geese - Abigail and Amelia Gabble. How many nice and funny phrases they said, I truly was upset when they left cats during the journey.And the last, but not the least - songs, they are incredible, with so nice lyrics.
'I don't worry what road to take
I don't have to think of that
Whatever I take is the road I make
The road of life
Make no mistake, for me'So, to sum up for me it is definitely another Disney masterpiece that is already added to my own best movies list.
Slow movie with little happening. I can remember not enjoying it as a child as well. Even looking past the stereotyping there is little to enjoy in this movie. Except barely one musical number there isnt anything worth listening to, and the characters lack charm. Feels to me like the focus was on the animation rather than anything else, and that is not good enough to be entertaining anymore.
'The AristoCats (1970)' is, essentially, more of the same from Disney, as generally enjoyable as it is individually unremarkable. Don't get me wrong, it's a good time. The scratchy animation meshes well with its feline characters and the plot does a decent job of keeping you invested in its central adventure. There are a couple of catchy tunes and some fun set-pieces, too. Overall, though, the movie is fairly paint-by-numbers. It follows a group of cats who must get back to their wealthy owner after they're thrown out by a greedy butler. It feels like several earlier Disney features, with only a mild spin on the formula. It does have some slightly intriguing elements, however. For example, the baddie is somewhat meek here, his machinations never quite playing out as planned, and this is an interesting angle for such a character. He puts our heroes in genuine danger and it's enjoyable to see him eventually meet his match, but he seems rather more polite than most of the studio's other foes and, as such, is slightly unmemorable. Another unique aspect is the jazz inflection of the score, which keeps you bopping along with the incredibly colourful music sequences. As can perhaps be expected, there are some unfortunate racial stereotypes. Thankfully, these aren't dwelled upon too much. In the end, the movie is an entertaining and well-animated adventure that doesn't so much stand-out from Disney's repertoire as fit in nicely with some of its better outputs. 7/10
Not that I'm a Disney buff or Disney connoisseur, but I'm surprised I hadn't seen this movie before. More still, I'm not even familiar with it. There are many Disney movies that I haven't seen, though I've heard of them.'The AristoCats' is more like a feline version of 'Lady and the Tramp' IMO. The wealthy cats, with Duchess (Eva Gabor) being the matriarch, were dumped in an unsavory part of France as a means of preventing them from inheriting the riches of their owner. There, Duchess met an alley cat named Thomas O'Malley (Phil Harris) who was from a totally different world than she.'The AristoCats' is a little funny, a little lively, and doesn't get nearly as dark, down, or depressing as some of their newer films. They always end on a happy note, but it seems nowadays they have to take the viewer about as low as possible before raising their spirits. The cats hit low, yes, but they stayed just above saddeningly low.
I loved (most of) the cats in this cute feature. The overall story is funny and entertaining. I liked all the interesting places they ended up in, which were well drawn and had a lot of life.
A mix between 'Lady and the Tramp' and 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' - but with cats.It's a pleasant little film, though it does have minor issues. Mainly with the animation, which is good with most of the cats but pretty average with the humans; I say most of the cats, as Thomas O'Malley looks weird.Thomas is voiced nicely by Phil Harris, while Eva Gabor comes in to voice Duchess. Those two work well together, as do the trio of Toulouse (Gary Dubin), Marie (Liz English) and Berlioz (Dean Clark). There are a few other decent characters, too.The plot is perfectly watchable, if predictable. Some of the songs are noteworthy also, especially 'Ev'rybody Wants to Be a Cat'. 'The Aristocats' is worth a watch.
This movie is so cute. The animation is very beautiful
A cute movie. A funny movie. Very good so much. Mari is so cute
I enjoyed watching this Disney Animation that came out the year 1970. This is my first time I watched it and now I am turning 41 years old this year. The Aristocats Cartoon was awesome to watch.
Which Leonard Maltin called 'forgettable'? I would put 'The Fox and the Hound' in that category. Very fast moving and short (70 min.) Relativity non-violent, as Edgar the Butler only manages to give the cat's 'a good night's sleep' and nothing else. Most memorable for Edgar's escapades with the two hound dogs while attempting to recover his lost hat, sidecar, umbrella, etc. so he won't be implicated in the 'catnapping'. Somewhat similar in story-line to '101 Dalmatians', as there is a long, perilous journey back home to safety. Cruela-De-Ville is a great villain. Even her sports car is evil. Also known for the village dog's 'twilight bark' Great character acting, especially by Eva Gabor as 'Duchess', the mother cat. Only a few songs, notably the well-animated musical sequence 'Everybody Want to be a Cat'. with Phil Harris and Scatman Cruthers. Also, a truly annoying song 'Cruella De-Ville'. A great ending worthy of a good Disney feature. The two bumbling henchmen never really hurt the 99 puppies. A good moneymaker, released 3 times to the theater!
I think a genre of this animated film is also musical as it uses music willingly and often to accompany the animation and make it more fun
Alongside a good plot line involving greed, the super score of this animated Disney classic will get kids dancing and singing in no time. The familiar voices of Phil Harris, Sterling Holloway, and Maurice Chevalier can be heard, with the unforgettable voice of Eva Gabor as the cat duchess. ---from Musicals on the Silver Screen, American Library Association, 2013
Disclaimer : I'm French and I want to improve my English skills. So I write reviews about the movies or tv shows I watched recently or not. Don't hesitate to correct me. It would be a great pleasure to read you and improve my written.Before to watch this Disney movie I just listened few musics of this on Youtube. That's why I already knew few characters like Berlioz or Marie, but I didn't know the ins and outs of the story.I really be surprised of the quality of this 70's movie. I didn't feel the time passed, the eighty minutes was very fast. The main characters Berlioz, Toulouse, Marie and Duchesse were adorable. You don't want that they suffer and you don't understand why the majordomo was jealous about them.Okay, there was an inheritance in stakes but I think it's a too easy problematic for the movie. To my point, the characters were not develop enough and the story is most destined to a child public.All in all, it's a good movie that you can watch rapidly and easily with kids, but if you didn't already watch this movie I don't recommend you to watch The AristoCats alone.Thank you for you attention.
It was made for children only?? Certainly not, Walt Disney always got to reach on mature audiences with their lovely movies, he knows that everybody has a child inside us, this charming story took place at Paris in 1910 about a fluffy Countess and their kittens in a fancy house of a rich aristocrat old lady, She is willing let all her properties to Countess's cat family, the greedy butler was nominee as the next on inheritance rights, so he decides drug them and taking away the cats and loose them at distant countryside, nevertheless the muddled butler has many troubles with a couple of funny dogs, nearby the farm, there the cats wake up of the forced sleep, then appears a snooty male cat O'Malley, a sort of bon-vivant alley cat, he meets a misguided Cat's family and tries help the shapely Countess & Sons, aware of the facts which the whole family ends up there, he still begrudging decides bring them back, already night they arrive at Paris, meeting all alleys cats on a low income neighborhood, with a strong humor oriented and a love atmosphere this classy animation clearly won public favour indeed, I see myself laughing of the couple dogs Napoleon & Lafayette, very touching story!!!Resume:First watch: 2020 / How many: 1 / Source: DVD / Rating: 8
Its a somewhat simple story, with not much depth or insight. so its ont of the more mediocre disnep movies. coulnt help but see the similairities with the dalmation movie, but i digress.5/10: average
The very first time I watched this movie, I just liked it, but once I watched it the second time, It became my no.1. Favourite Disney Movie of all time, beating Fox and the Hound.The characters are loveable, Especially Duchess, and the kittens, they are just so freaking adorable that they would make your heart melt from Cuteness. Duchess is beautiful, polite, and a very kind mother, basically, a mother that any child would want. Because of that, she's my favourite character from this movie.
And the Kittens, well, they are so passionate and cultural, even though I do feel bad for Marie because of her brothers being total Jerks to her.
This Movie is basically a good combination of my passions: Cats, Disney, Jazz, France, and mainly, Paris.Plus, one thing that I should probably mention is that despite me loving this movie, I really hate Edgar, because he is a total Jerk to Duchess and the kittens, trying to get rid of them. And the scene where he tries to send them to Timbuktu makes me feel bad for the cats, because, as I'm a cat-lover, I do not like seeing cats being tortured,mistreated, thrown into sacks, etc. But I'm glad Edgar got what he deserved in the end.I am aware that this movie is underrated, but that doesn't prevent me from loving it. I know, the story is a bit predictable and weak, but the characters are Lovable, the music and the animation are wonderful, basically, Classic Disney. Overall, it's a delightful movie, and I will always love and cherish it. If you're a cat, or a jazz lover, then I would defintely recommend giving it a watch.
Another Disney movie, and these guys are still at the top of the animation game. Discounting those old package films of the war period, theirs are always polished productions, from the storytelling to the animation. This one may be a minor film in their catalog, not quite as good as their great classics, but it's still ahead of the competition.The animation uses a similar art style to 101 Dalmatians. It looks intentionally sketchy but in a good way. I have mentioned in other reviews that I love the gorgeous, flawless animation of the Golden Age of Disney, and this is not it, but it looks good in its own style.The story is not that original. It plays it safe, using elements of Lady and the Tramp and 101 Dalmatians, and a villain who is more clumsy than scary. The result is a slow moving but charming film, with good characterization and, as expected of Disney, very cute talking animals, particularly the kittens, whose interactions and expressions are particularly expressive.Rating: 8/10.
When I was six, I went to see 'The Aristocats' in the theater and enjoyed it thoroughly. Now, almost 50 years later, I'm seeing it for the second time....and not surprisingly my reaction is a tad different. This review is intended for older audiences. Kids will love it....adult probably will like it.The story begins with a crazy rich lady meeting with her lawyer to draw up a will. She wants to give her money to her four cats...and, if anything should happen to them, the butler, Edgar, will get the money. Naturally, Edgar overhears this and plans of getting rid of the cats once and for all. Unfortunately for him, while he does catnap the cats, they escape and the film consists of the mother cat and her three kittens making their way back home. An alley cat, O'Malley, befriends these pampered pets and helps them on their journey.As an adult, I noticed a lot of stuff kids probably won't care about very much. The biggest thing I noticed was how poor the animation was compared to most other Disney cartoons. While the cats were animated well, the cats' owner looked pretty garish and hurredly drawn. The same goes for some of the other characters. The animation marks the low point for Disney for full-length films and looks unfinished and ugly at times. The other thing I noticed is how simple the story is--too simple. The cats are stolen, the cats return....and the rest seemed like filler. Overall, not a big film at all...it was enjoyable. But it's also one of the least of the Disney 'classic' films...if not the least. I'd place it among 'The Rescuers Down Under' quality-wise.By the way, I mentioned this in the summary. But as an adult, I actually could sympathize with Edgar. After all, some balmy old lady leaving her fortune to her cats is pretty dopey!
One of my all time favorite Disney classics, i always enjoy rewatching it and it never fails to bring me back to my childhood to a simpler times. There is something magical about hand created animations and they will always be better for me then computer animated ones. I'm not saying that computer animeted ones are bad and no good, there are beautiful animated movies like Brave, Zootopia, Ice age, Big Hero 6, Despicable me ... all of this movies are great and i love them, but there is just no such magic like in the old ones.
The AristoCats tells a story about greed and jealousy and how real friends can be there for you in the hardest times.
Yeah, the song's great and everything. What I want to know is why the granny wanted to leave an inheritance to her CATS???!!
Low on running time and animation at times, but awesome French backgrounds. 1970's and 1980's was at times a hard time form animation as many was trippy, and groovy as Ash said. Good for small kids in a class to learn about old France the first time.
I have seen The Aristocats and I do not like the plot, The selfish high society Duchess is a spoiled witch. She's in a way a real Disney villain. While the greedy Butler Edgar is pushed aside from her will I feel really sorry for Edgar who was just doing his job and Adelaide is ungrateful and shoves him aside.This film starts off with Madame Adelaide who plans on giving her money to her cats which is stupid and doesn't make sense as cats can't handle money or would never use it, the Butler is upset and decides to kidnap the cats and drop them off in the countryside. The Duchess meets Thomas O'Malley and falls in love.Is Duchess the cat a widow or did her husband cat divorce her or run on on her? I'm interested in her former husband cat. I did like the 3 little kittens, I liked the 2 lady geese and her drunk uncle. I didn't like the 2 dogs attacking Edgar he could've gotten into a motorcycle accident. The cats hitch a truck ride and have to get off, they fall in the river, meets 2 geese and walks all the way to Paris. They meet the homeless cats called The Scat Cat band living in an abandoned house. The Duchess and her 3 cats go home only to be sacked by Edgar who plans on sending them to Timbuktu but the mean cats gang up on him and he gets sent off to Timbuktu Africa. And the mean Madame Adelaide decides to exclude Edgar from her will and give it to the cats.Seriously how the heck are the 5 cats going to inherit her will. And why would she allow the homeless cats to inherit her mansion? Especially the scat cat gang, they would vandalize and wreck her home and make it a dump, Madame Adelaide was very selfish she only cared about herself and didn't care for Edgar the Butler. Also she really didn't care about her 4 cats, she didn't think about how they would live get their food, water, going to the bathroom, she really has neglected her kittens, Seriously her neighbors would've called the animal pound and the land estate would've taken her mansion away and give it to a different butler given this is in the 1910s.This movie needs to either be remade so Madame Adelaide Bonfamille is the villain and have Edgar actually be a hero who made bad choices and have him go to the police and file a lawsuit against Madame Adelaide for mistreatment on his job payment wages and have him take over the mansion where he can have his own pets and also maybe send some money to charity.Or this movie needs a sequel to pick up where the ending left off and have Edgar either call for help and they open up the trunk to free him or show him in Timbuktu where he's stranded in Africa and he has to travel back to France and then he could contact the Estate and have them sue Madame Adelaide for mistreatment and have her evicted or kicked out of her mansion or Edgar have Madame sent to a nursing home and the 5 cats would be homeless and would have to live at the Scat Cat abandoned house or the 5 cats would be be Edgars house pets. That would've been a better remake or sequel.Also there's the Norte Dame Cathedral which has caught on fire in 2019. There's also the Paris Tower. I did like the songs but that was about it. The rest of the movie was horrible.The original ending was horrible and it ended in a cliffhanger where Edgar is shipped away to Timbuktu, did he suffocate? Also do we get to meet African people in the village? I want to know, I definitely make a fan fiction video where Madame Adelaide is the lady villain and Edgar has to file a lawsuit against her and have the police evict her from her home. And also file a lawsuit against the Farmer dog owners who's 2 dogs attacked him. That would be a better story.
The Aristocats is a hilarious and heartwarming Disney delight that gets a bad wrap. Maybe I'm bias because I watched this movie so much as a kid, but even as I re-watch it not, I realize just how care-free and fun this movie is.
The plot of the movie shows just that. This movie is about an aristocrat who puts her cats as her inherits in her will before her butler. Right off the bat, we see how hilariously odd this occurrence is, which makes the audience digest the movie in a lighter-tone. What I'm trying to say is that the movie knew exactly what tone to set and how to.
I find this movie much more entertaining than many older Disney movies, most likely because it nailed its comedy. It seemed to focus on using random occurrences and out of the ordinary situations to make the audience laugh ie: the dogs attacking Edgar, O Mally jumping on the 'Magic Carpet', and the entirety of the 'Everybody Wants to be a Cat' sequence. The two dogs attacking Edgar seems to be the highlight of the comedy, not even because they are attacking him, but because they are 2 great characters put together. Their dialogue leaves you on edge and will make you to laugh out loud numerous times.
Finally, one of the greatest things about this movie is the music! The soundtrack is so catchy, and entertaining to listen to. It is defiantly a step up from Disney's older slower songs. Everybody Wants to be a Cat is by far one of the greatest Disney songs ever. It is long, catchy, exciting, and layered with sections that give the song dynamics. The lyrics are both funny, and interesting as a cat's perspective on life.
To conclude this quite possibly contriversial review, The Aristocats is a funny, delightful, and care-free Disney film that is criminally underrated.
This Disney animation is set in early twentieth century France where a wealthy Parisian woman who has decided that her cat, Duchess, along with her three kittens, Berlioz, Marie and Toulouse will inherit her wealth. They are to be looked after by butler Edgar and he will inherit when they are gone... but when he overhears this he decides he can't wait so slips sleeping pills into the cats' food and drives them far into the country. When they awaken they have no idea where they are but passing alley cat, Thomas O'Malley, offers to help them return to Paris. Along the way home they get into a number of scrapes as well as meeting a pair of helpful geese and O'Malley's friend Scat Cat and his jazz playing associates. While this is going on the cats' friend Roquefort, a mouse, and Frou-Frou the horse learn what happened and Edgar realises he has left potentially incriminating evidence in the countryside.I wasn't sure what to expect from this film but since Disney rarely disappoints I decided to give it a go. I'm glad that I did as it was a lot of fun. The story provided plenty of laughs cute characters, excitement that shouldn't be too scary for younger viewers, a touch of romance and a villain who is more comical than fearsome. The story moves at a good pace and at just under eighty minutes doesn't overstay its welcome. There are a few songs of which he jazz number 'Ev'rybody Wants to Be a Cat' was easily the most entertaining. There are plenty of amusing moments; my favourites involve Edgar and two hounds he has trouble with in the countryside. The animation is really good with beautifully detailed backgrounds and fine character designs. The voice cast do an impressive job of bringing the characters to life. Overall I'd say this is well worth watching for fans of Disney or of animated films in general.
The ArtisoCats is such a wonderful family film to watch. It has love, tons of laughter, thrilling moments and an overall great outcome for the movie. A great cast along with the storyline. A+++ Film. I would HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE TO ANYONE!!!
Yes, I know, this was a different time period and movies since then have gotten substantially better, but I still want to be blunt: The AristoCats isn't the best that was there. I LOVED it, don't get me wrong, all the songs and characters were adorable and I had a great time throughout. But it feels less like a movie and more like a really long, entertaining but otherwise silly cartoon.The entire time, I would think about how these scenes in the movie all sort of felt 'looney-toon-esque,' dare I say it, and while that isn't a bad thing in the long run, it does affect how the movie portrays itself. There's not too much of a message, there isn't many heart-gripping or tense scenes in the movie, and its not overly complicated in terms of plot. But its cute! And its fun, great for kids, and is totally fine to watch as a quick period of entertainment. Again, its like a really long cartoon, and thats fine.But lets be honest, there are better Disney classics out there. This movie is similar in plot to Lady and the Tramp, a movie I'd much prefer over Aristocats any day (no offense, kitties), and there are also movies like Dalmations and the Lion King and overall handfuls of 2D animated classics that outrun Aristocats by miles. So if you're really looking for something intense, memorable, or something with a more movie-feel, you're better off trying a different Disney classic. Best to save Aristocats for the more chill Saturday afternoons with your kids/
One of the best classic Walt Disney movies. Kind, family, with good music and an interesting plot.
Drawing for the 70s just brilliant.
That is worth a look!
A classic film that just makes you few good. Always nice to watch a Disney movie and this one is no different
O Malley,Duchess and kittens try to find their way back home.Very nice representation of Paris,excellent music and amazing characters.
Great movie for children and adults, it is for everyone. Nice animation and nice story.Poeple would love those kind of characters.
Not the best disney film in terms of storytelling. But the visual bsckgrounds do have a nice look to them.
This was the first ever animated Disney film to be made without Walt since his passing in 1966, although he did approve of it. However, considering the master had passed on, it also meant that those at the company had no proper direction without his involvement. This resulted in a decade and a half of films that ranged from decent to flat out embarrassing, and this film is one of them. I will admit I did enjoy the film as a child, but looking back on it, it has many noticeable problems.The biggest offense to be given to The Aristocats has to be the general setup. Considering that the cat, Duchess, and her kittens are inheriting their owner Madame Bonfamille's inheritance, it makes Bonfamille's mindset rather questionable. As for the story structure itself, it's a rather episodic format in which the street cat Thomas O'Malley helps Duchess and her kittens find their way home after the butler Edgar catnaps them, while meeting all sorts of idiosyncratic characters. These scenes can be entertaining, but they either come off as bombastic, distracting, or even unnecessary. In fact, when you get down to it, nothing of true substance happens in this film, the narrative is that straightforward.Another poor aspect of the movie is how pathetic of an antagonist Edgar is. He does accomplish getting rid of the cats, but the fact that he never once goes back to see if they're truly dead makes him rather incompetent. Had he peaked back at the cats and saw them dead from his perspective, it'd pay off better than him accidentally dropping them off and forgetting to make sure they died. Sure he does retrieve some of his own evidence, but it's only an excuse to see the dogs again, and this is where the movie gets sluggish. I know these dogs were beloved by the staff and their first appearance was very hysterical, but their second appearance just wastes time that should've been spent on Edgar realizing that the cats survived and needing to finish the job. At least it would've given the movie more suspense.Now in terms of positivity, I will admit that the film has just enough charming qualities to keep it from being bad. The most gorgeous aspect of the film is how atmospheric the French aesthetics are, with lush Parisian backgrounds and an accordion conducted score. Also, while Thomas O'Malley is similar to Baloo from The Jungle Book (down to having the same voice actor), he does make for a pretty likable protagonist with enough charisma to hold the film over. Duchess herself comes off as very polite and respectful in spite of her urgency to get back home, whilst also being very selfless and caring more for others than herself. Even the romance between Duchess and O'Malley feels very genuine from their chemistry and attractive charms alone. As for the kittens themselves, they can either be annoying from their rambunctious antics or cute from their sweat minded personas.In addition, the remaining supporting characters are kind of a mix. Roquefort is a very admirable mouse who tries to help the cats despite his size. O'Malley's cat group do serve a bigger role in the climax making them more than just comic reliefs. The geese, Abigail and Amelia, do come off as a little too giddy for my tastes, but at least they rescue O'Malley, so hats off to them. But finally, the most memorable part of the whole film is the song Everybody Wants to be a Cat. While Scales and Arpeggios and Thomas O'Malley do give decent insight to the main characters, this song is so catchy and upbeat that it really helps spicen up an already dull movie. Even though the jazzy tone doesn't fit with the film's timeline, it's still one heck of a tune that will never leave your head.In conclusion, while The Aristocats does suffer from a lack of creativity, a weak story and a few absent minded characters, the smooth atmosphere, majority of likable characters and entertaining songs do make it somewhat of a guilty pleasure for me. This is a movie you either love, hate or are neutral towards it, and while I do see why many find it to be one of the weaker Disney films, I do have a soft spot for it nonetheless. It may not be a movie I'd want to put on religiously, but if I ever wanted to see an average albeit harmless animated film set in France, I'd give it another view. Hey, at least it's better than giving your money to your cats in real life, right?
I liked it very much, this movie was the first movie made by Disney after the death of Walt Disney, but it was still good. Tanbem was the first Disney movie in which cats were not the villains, but the heroes. This film had a good story, with good characters and good actors, director, producer, editor, E.T.C.
Highly recommend.
Almost forgotten today, the Aristocats about cats in Paris has a good voice cast but it seems like something that should have been made for Saturday morning TV. Fun for kiddies, but not that memorable.
A mixture of Lady and the Tramp and 101 Dalmatians, only with cats...oh, and no soul, story conviction, authentic charm, or worthwhile style. Still though, 'Everybody Wants to Be a Cat' is a banger.
Watching this movie when it was first released, it left a good feeling already: a simple story, but a very happy one, also helped with a nice musical soundtrack. Through the years I enjoyed watching it several times, and my appreciation grew . 
The characters are funny, the animation is nice, like 101 damations, the style is nice and this pic I share amongst the best animated movies from Disney: not sentimental and just plain fun to watch. Recommended !
Although it isn't among the Disney's top masterpieces, it is unfairly neglected. Cats are my favorite creatures, so maybe I'm biased, but I could watch this cartoon hundreds of times. Also, I always preferred old school animation over computer one, and when you have excellent drawing and add even better jazz to it, you get unforgettable experience.8/10Everybody wants to be a cat
Because a cat's the only cat who knows where it's at
Tell me, everybody's pickin' up on that feline beat
'Cause everything else is obsoleteA square with a horn
Makes you wish you weren't born
Every time he plays
But with a square in the act
You can set music back
To the caveman daysI've heard some corny birds
Who tried to sing
Still a cat's the only cat
Who knows how to swingWho wants to dig a long-haired gig stuff like that?
When everybody wants to be a catWhen playin' jazz
He always has a welcome mat
'Cause everybody digs a swingin' cat
Wow! The music and talent of this group. It's such a shame they never did anything else after this picture. I would have followed them on tour!
The AristoCats follows a rich feline and her three kittens, after their elderly owner willed all of her belongings to the cats, her butler Edgar plots to get rid of the felines.This movie is hilarious. The characters are loveable, the dialogue is great and there some fun slapstick action scenes.
The music is great! The song 'Everybody Wants to be a Cat' will be stuck in your head for days!The plot isn't very realistic (Is Disney ever 'Realistic'?) But it's a lot if fun. The kids will definitely enjoy it!The voice-acting is good too. You may recognize Sterling Holloway, known for voicing Winnie the Pooh and the Cheshire Cat. Here he lends his voice to the cats' mouse friend.The AristoCats definitely deserves it's place among the Walt Disney Animated Studios canon.
It's pre-war Paris. Duchess is a well groomed cat with three kittens; Marie, Berlioz, and Toulouse. Man servant Edgar overhears their loving elderly owner Madame Adelaide Bonfamille changing her will. She plans to leave her estate to the cats with Edgar as her heir after the cats' death. He decides to abandon the cats in the country. Stray cat Thomas O'Malley falls for Duchess and leads the family back to Paris.The song and music is big band and jazzy. It's the waning years of old school Disney animation. It is fun and light but lacks any long-lasting drama. The old school feel fits the time period and setting of the story. It doesn't have the big iconic tune although a couple of them are pretty catchy. The cats are cute. Edgar is a functional villain but the movie needs a more immediate villain in the middle while he is separated from the cats. There should be an animal villain hunting the family to heighten the drama. There is a stretch between being abandoned and returning to face Edgar where the movie lacks any tension. In any case, the movie has a good nature light fluffiness that is quite appealing.
The older I get, the more I realise how boring and lazy this Disney feature is. I am not saying that it is plain bad, but it really is forgettable. The only thing about it I really enjoyed was the 'Everybody Wants to Be a Cat' scene and Thomas O'Malley's song. Okay, when Edgar meets these dogs, things get a little exciting, but that's it. It also has one of Disney's most dull and forgettable villains in the greedy butler Edgar. Not to talk about the many of the other side characters, which are merely shown one time in the film and then oddly appears at the very end to sing 'Everybody...'. Not that the characters are all just bad or unlikeable, they are just forgettable. I felt bored by listening to their voices.Definitely not one of my favorite Disney features.
The Ariosto cats is a hilarious tale about a cat named Maria along with her kittens who are kidnapped by the butler and now must make it home with the help of an alley cat named o'mallyIn a lot of ways it reminds me of 101 Dalmatians from art work, animals being involved with worried owners, the butler and he even crashed his mo pad in a river.This cation seems to mix a few genres successfully. The two cats fall in love Paris style. Comedy from the hi-jinks the butler will go to get the animals only to fail. Drama from being ripped away from their elderly lonely owner and horror at what lengths human nature will go. The music is enchanting from classical romantic synthetic music to back street jamboree.The voice work had real talent like Phil Harris and Eva Harbor who provide great life, pose and unique charm to the roles.Not the best Disney feature ever made, but its a great way to kill an hour.6/10
When a very rich Parisian lady decides to leave all her assets to her cats, her jealous butler decides to make them disappear so he could have it all. Directed by Wolfgang Reitherman, it features a soundtrack composed by George Bruns.We are probably facing one of the most underrated films of Disney Studios. It has a simple script, based on an inheritance dispute between a butler and a family of cats. The voice actors are good and the work of designers is great. The use of softer tones, combined with a firm but discreet pencil, make it very elegant and charming. The film has some important moral messages: the union of the family, as well as help to those in peril, are values ​​visible in the way the cats help each other. On the other hand, the adverse consequences that the butler suffers show the children the punishment for his envy and greed. In the film, the 'dating' between Duchess and O'Malley recalls the dating scenes made twenty years earlier for 'The Lady and the Tramp'.One of the most appreciated features of this film is the soundtrack, which contains a number of interesting musical moments, from the song of Siamese cats to the song that kittens sing at the piano. But the most striking piece is 'Everybody wants to be a cat.' It comes near the climax and it's a very fun jazz, played by the stray cats.
I'll receive many fingers down, but I need to say that this is by far the worst traditional Disney animation ever. 'Oliver & Company' (1988) and 'The Black Cauldron'(1985) seems like a 'Spirited Away' in the side of Aristocats.The only good and inspired thing about Aristocats is the musical sequence 'Everybody Wants to be a Cat'. Only this. Let's look at the rest:The characters are awfully dull. O'Malley is just a cat version of Tramp. Duchess is a sympathetic character though, but only she can't save the movie. The animation is just terrible, full of recycled scenes, and low quality xerography, compared with '101 Dalmatians' (1961) and 'Jungle Book'(1967). 'Robin Hood'(1973) also had a poor animation, but compensated this with a more entertaining and funny story to follow. But what's the story of Aristocats? It's a rip-off of 'Lady and the Tramp' and '101 Dalmatians' version cats. The plot is dull, full of random and unbearably tedious moments, like Edgar being chased by generic dogs, and the group of cats talking with annoying geese, that not even a child with 7 years would have the patience to finish watching. Do you remember Cruella Devil, a woman who wanted to kill 99 puppies Dalmatians for wear their skin? Yes, she's a true villain. But in Aristocats, we have Edgar, the most dumb villain I've ever seen in my life. Why the heck Edgar decided get rid of the cats BEFORE Madame Bonfamille die? And why the heck he gave sleeping pills to cats and went to a other place, when he simply could arrest all cats in a bag and drown them? With these questions, we can see how Edgar is a dumb villain and how fragile and nonsense is the script of this film.
The AristoCats is just another movie that offers a mix of charm, entertainment, and some dull, boring moments. Officially the first film of the Dark Age, there is plenty to go around for music, characters (interesting to see Duchess have a Hungarian accent, courtesy of Eva Gabor), and a workable, understandable amount of intentionally cute scenes. Despite that, there are still plenty of flaws in the story execution, in a way that my interest was swiftly dropping as a casual movie attender (I had to force myself to go through all of it as a critic). I personally found the timing of the re-engagement moments to be quite precise, with the sometimes hilarious antics of Lafayette and Napoleon hitting at the moment that I was about to get up. I might consider it a style, featuring several ups and downs to initially make the audience want to leave, but then transforming into psychological captivation. I was somewhat annoyed by this, though the movie is overall worth a viewing. It might not be suitable for those who despise cats (like Angry Grandpa), so be warned.
Enjoyable for what it is, 'The AristoCrats' simply for me brings back memories of seeing it when it first came out. I recalled the rather pretentious butler, Edgar, the kindly madame (who still looked like Cinderella's step-mother even if she was sweet), the fatherless kittens of 'Duchess' and all the other assorted animals who came in and out of the slight story-two pranksterish country hounds, two overly helpful but ultimately bossy geese, a suspicious horse, a lovable mouse, and of course the various alley cats of all backgrounds who had a penchant for Le Jazz Hot. Seen 46 years later, it took me back to the small neighborhood theater that my parents dropped my siblings and I off at for 90 minutes while they went grocery shopping, and the line-up of Disney re-releases, this one being in first run and the others accompanying it as part of a children's matinée theater festival.Sweet sounding Eva Gabor is the lovable and classy Duchess whose three kittens look as if they could all have had different dads. Where the father is never is explained, and when Phil Harris joins their group after nasty Edgar dumps the cat family in the French countryside, it is obvious that Gabor has romance on her mind with this new potential Popsicle. Edgar has overheard Madame indicate that her money will go to her cats with him as executor, and in order to get his hands on her money faster decides to dispose of the cat family. With his tiny little hat popping off his huge, fat head every time his motorcycle has a back-fire, Edgar takes them out of Paris, looses them thanks to the chasing of the hound dogs, and must return when he realizes that there is evidence which could expose his plot. By this time, the cats are on their way back to Paris with the help of the very Irish Harris, and they meet up with his pals, led by Scatman Crothers' 'Scat Cat' who leads a bunch of alley cats in the big musical number 'Everybody Wants to Be a Cat'.Going from pooh bear to tiny house mouse, Sterling Holloway is a lovable little rodent who is good friends with the classy felines and goes out of his way to find them and expose the nasty Edgar. He even risks being eaten, and that makes him perhaps the most endearing of all the non-cat animals. 'Beverly Hillbillies' co-star Nancy Kulp's voice is recognizable as the horse whom Edgar naively confesses his scheme to, and there are other familiar voices as well. Disney as a studio would continue to make animated films over the next decade, and other than just being moderate hits, nothing of great importance would come along until they decided to musicalize some children's classics. But as Disney's last personally supervised animated film, 'The AristoCats' was a footnote after 33 years of feature films that the master had his finger on. Every great Disney film needs a great villain, and in the case of the pompous Edgar, he's more of a comic buffoon than a truly evil human. He certainly gets his come-uppance, but he's basically just a gay version of Cruella de Vil from '101 Dalmations' and not really all that threatening when compared to the Wicked Queen, Wicked Stepmother, Malificent or later scary villains like Ursula, Jafar and Hades. This probably plays better for children than it does adults, being rather silly and juvenile in spots, but does have a few adult references that might go over the heads of pre-teen children yet be picked up instantly by grown-ups. It was great going down memory lane again with one of the few Disney animated films that I saw during its initial run, but I believe that this won't be on my repeat viewing list.
I'm not a Disney movie fan. If I see a Disney cartoon movie on the shelf, I will probably give it a skip and not watch it. So, it was very surprising that I decided to watch it for free on the television on the Disney channel. I'm only 11 turning 12, and I was a bit immature, just like any other person in between 10 and 14, however anyway, my parents wanted to watch it, and I thought, hey, why don't I? So, I watched it with my parents. Not being a fan of cats, I would of expected it to be terrible. But surprisingly, no! I have no idea why I liked it, I just did! It's one of those movies where you can't explain why you like it, but you seem to like it anyway. The movie was just really good! Although I rated it a 9/10, I actually think it should have a 8.1/10. A good classic movie, I guess. Great movie for kids. I'm settling on 8.1/10.
The Aristocats (1970): Dir: Wolfgang Reitherman / Voices: Eva Gabor, Phil Harris, Scatman Crothers, Sterling Holloway, Roddy Maude-Roxby: Animation about class and a family of cats left with a Paris estate by their millionaires owner. Edgar the greedy butler doesn't much care for this news so he kidnaps the feline family and abandons them in the country. Duchess the feline mother and her three daring children are eventually joined by an alley cat named Thomas O'Malley. Simple plot and very undemanding with a slapstick violent climax common in these films. One must question the mental stability of a person who leaves her estate to animals. Directed by Wolfgang Reitherman with dazzling colorful animation. Eva Gabor voices Duchess, whom like any mother cares for her children and their safety. Phil Harris voices Thomas O'Malley who is a rather simple character with an uplifting attitude that churns romantic vibes at Duchess. Scatman Crothers voices Scat Cat who leads his Jazz playing band of cats that sing 'Everybody Wants to be a Cat.' He will be recruited by O'Malley to fight against Edgar. Sterling Holloway voices a loyal mouse whom assists the cats. Roddy Maude-Roxby voices the villain butler Edgar who provides some humour with his downfall. Simplistic and flat yet colorful Disney animation about family with wit, charm and a touch of class. Score: 6 / 10
NOTE: This film was recommended to me by Lizz Rutter for 'Steve Pulaski Sees It.' Disney's The Aristocats is such a charming, almost compelling story that I wished the narrative didn't need to interrupt itself so sporadically with jazz-fueled musical numbers amongst not only cats, but dogs and a variety of other animals. The musical interjections, that push this Disney film over the edge into being a full-blown musical like most of their films in this respective era, unfortunately disrupts the magic these feline characters manage to conjure up when they are just trying to sift their way through their poor circumstance.The result, as one can expect, is a film that you say 'aww' to over a dozen times and a film that has you either tapping your foot or rocking your legs in melodic harmony with the music. The Aristocats is a simplistic story, concerning a wealthy woman named Madame Adelaide (voiced by Hermione Baddeley) in 1910 Paris that has just signed a will granting her lavish estate to her cat Dutchess (Eva Gabor) and her three kittens. This move greatly upsets her jealous, hot-headed English butler Edgar (Roddy Maude-Roxby), who has slaved away at serving Madame Adelaide for years and has ostensibly gotten nothing in return. As a result, Edgar conjures up a plan to get rid of the cats so when Adelaide dies, he can inherit the estate. He rounds up the four cats and throws them into the street, where the four homebody felines must learn to survive in order to be reconnected with their Madame.On the long, rainy, and uncertain road back home, Duchess meets a gentle feral cat named Thomas O'Malley (Phil Harris), who has been living off the land for many years. O'Malley is kind to Duchess, as he recognizes their predicament, but most important to note is how well he responds to her kittens, playing with them and assisting them whenever they need it. Both him and Duchess strike up an affable relationship as the gang tries to get back home, but not without a few musical numbers slowing them down along the way.The Aristocats, in a strange way, could almost be seen as a parable for single parent-dating or 'getting back out there,' especially for a woman who has children, which is no easy process. The film showcases such a challenge with admirable conviction and a willingness to have long stretches without musical numbers or any kind of distractions in order to allow this relationship to build. For an animated film in the modern day, even some of the best ones stamped with the Disney or Disney Pixar approval can't help but feel a bit scatterbrained in some sense, stepping over their toes to try and cover all the bases in subplots, character relations, and cause-and-effect relationships that are questionably worthy of being a focus in said film.The Aristocats was birthed in a time when animation took a more relaxed and reserved approach, which is why we could see Duchess, O'Malley, and Duchess's kittens do everything from hop aboard a train to meet two snobby swans in a river below a bridge. This kind of fluid, real-time focus on the characters makes the process and narrative development all the more natural. Of course, the film cuts back to Madame Adelaide desperately trying to find her cats, along with Edgar's conniving plan to make sure the furry beasts will never come home, and the jazzy musical numbers occasionally get in the way of a film that's already extremely short (a mere seventy-eight minutes). However, nothing truly distracts from The Aristocats being simple, effervescent entertainment with a plethora of fun characters, a timely moral, and, okay, some pretty catchy jazz numbers as well.Voiced by: Edna Gabor, Phil Harris, Hermione Baddeley, and Roddy Maude-Roxby. Directed by: Wolfgang Reitherman.
First saw the movie in 1972 when it was released in French Canada (the Parisian french version fits very well, with France's voice celebrities Roger Carel and Claude Bertrand among the cast...). I enjoyed it then... and still today enjoyed it so fully...Greedy butler Edgar tries to get rid of her mistress' cats to have their inheritance, however, a clever mouse, two dogs, English Goose sisters, a horse and a charming alley cat with his band of jazz cats save the day for Duchess and her kittens.Great Disney fare for all. And if you love cats, you'll fall in love with Paris and the French countryside settings. And enjoy the gags and the songs...Everybody wants to be a cat here... You'll love it !
The movie, 'The AristoCats', is a fantastic movie for your young one to watch when you just need sometime off. Not only will the love the characters, the setting, and the many animals, it also builds up good ideas in their minds. It gives the idea of staying mentally strong, compatibility with others, and resilience against difficult situations. The cats are drugged, and then thrown out into the river left to drown. With all this hardship, Duchess, the mother cat, keeps her ducks in a row and makes sure that her family is safe. She keeps herself strong and gives to others who are important to her. Her family and her own welfare is the most important thing to her. This could have effect on your children, building the mentality that it is important to stay strong when the going gets rough.Our little family they will need to trust others to keep themselves safe. Of course, we don't want your kid running off with a stranger when they are lost, but it may be a way to talk to your kids about talking to strangers. This little family of cats, each and everyone, must be resilient against their hardship. They all have to show compassion and strength towards each other to keep everyone together. By keeping themselves strong, they keep each other strong.
The movie The Aristocats is great movie. Its the theme is mostly adventure. There is the mom Duchess with her three little children Marie, Toulouse, and Berlioz. Edgar the butler, makes them fall asleep with some medicine. Then proceeds to take them away but in the process drops them trying to escape some dogs. The basket of cats falls near a stream by the bridge. Once awoken they hid in the basket, while it rains. I'm the morning they meet Thomas O'Malley. He agreed to help them get to Paris. Other than helping them, Tomas saved the children a few times from being left behind, drowned, or falling off of something. When they were getting close to Paris they started liking each other more. Duchess was sad she could not bring him but Madame would be worried. My analysis is that this is an perfect example of how good is at work in this greedy world. It also gives an example of that a very kind person would help. But in real life there are very few people that would do that. Most people would be like the butler and throw the kittens out just so they could inherit some money. It an example of the trials of life. The cats have to go thought some complicated stuff to get to Paris but they also make some great memories. I really think this is a good movie it has a lot of hidden messages that different people will get out of it. It's so kind how some they meat would help them and show them parts of the world they haven't seen
What would you get if you took both Lady and the Tramp and 101 Dalmatians, smashed them together and made it about cats to avoid being completely obvious about it. In a word, this movie. It has the pampered household pet meeting a scamp, it has animals being stolen for lucrative purposes, it has chases and hiding, it has a romantic moonlit night... it basically has all the good parts from both films, but because they're so obviously borrowed, you can't really get into it.The film has its upsides, though, certainly. It's a Disney film after all. The music for one is pretty sweet, with jazzy tunes and one true classic in Ev'rybody Wants to Be a Cat. Plus, the two main characters, Duchess and O'Malley, while painfully similar to Lady and the Tramp, are at least interesting to follow, whereas the three children have no personalities of their own, aside from one of them being a female.Furthermore, the film's plot is full of holes, the villain is one of the least interesting Disney villains I've ever seen, the film is nothing more than a sequence of uninteresting side characters met one after another, the conclusion has no stages and as a whole it simply lacks effort.The Aristocats is perfectly fine as a children's film. It's not offensive in any way, the animation is nice, the music is nice and there's no reason why your kids wouldn't love it. But, it's one of the few Disney films you cannot really sit through as an adult without any difficulty, especially if you've seen the two films it rips off.
Think: feline version of LADY and the TRAMP. Usual entertaining Disney animation feature; but not the instant classic as so many during Walt Disney's lifetime. (I believe this is the first completed feature following his death.) Grand, beautiful and pampered pussy Duchess(Eva Gabor)leaves all her earthly possessions to her three kittens in her will.(Duchess might have really made the rounds by looking at her three different looking offspring.) A clause states whats left of the fortune goes to the butler Edgar(Roddy Maude-Roxby)in the event the cats don't survive. Greedy Edgar dumps them out in the country in hopes they will never find their way back home. But coming to their aid is alley cat Thomas O'Malley(Phil Harris).ARISTOCATS is family fun with high quality cinematography and directed by Wolfgang Reitherman. Maurice Chevalier sings the title song. And Harris sings a tune called 'Thomas O'Malley Cat'. A diverse group of actors lend their voices to supplement the cast: Sterling Holloway, Pat Buttram, Nancy Culp, George Lindsay, Scatman Crothers, Lord Tim Hudson and Hermoine Baddeley.
With the help of a smooth talking tomcat (Phil Harris), a family of Parisian felines set to inherit a fortune from their owner try to make it back home after a jealous butler kidnaps them and leaves them in the country.This film may have been great in its day, but it just does not hold up well. The plot is pretty basic (almost non-existent), the characters are just average, with the male lead being incredibly sexist (and the female lead somehow enjoying it). The father of the kittens is never explained, and leads the viewer to imagine the horrible circumstances that lead to their birth...The music is alright, and the voice talent is very good (with many returning for the superior 'Rescuers'). There is never a bad time for Scatman Crothers. But the film does not age that great, and if it were to be remade would require quite the makeover for Thomas O'Malley.
Yet another great romantic animated Disney classic. A romance between O'Malley the cool alley cat and Duchess the lovely feline who is an upscale beauty. Together they are on a great adventure with some of the grooviest cats in town.I love swinging song 'Everybody Wants To Be A Cat' - a very hip jazzy tune that is so memorable. Not bad tune for a Walt Disney animated classic.If you enjoyed The AristoCats then you may enjoy film like: 'Lady and the Tramp', '101 Dalmatians', 'The Fox and the Hound' and 'The Rescuers'.9.5/10
Kids will love it, but adults might find it so-so. Not anywhere near as good as Wolfgang Reitherman's previous movie, The Jungle Book. Story is quite basic, even dull at times. Music is okay but not great. Certainly not in The Jungle Book's league.This said, it has many sweet moments. It is shortish - 70 minutes long.Animation is also different to The Jungle Book, though this is not necessarily a bad thing. Here the animations seem more like water colour paintings than cartoons, which gives the movie a more artistic impression. With Paris as the setting, it works well.Voice performances are good, and well-cast. Phil Harris, who played Baloo in The Jungle Book, is back, as O'Malley The Alley Cat, and does a great job.
Animated version about a family of beloved Aristocats filled with humor , action , musical numbers , entertainment and fun . 1910 Paris , retired opera star Adelaide Bonfamille enjoys her wealthy life in her Paris villa with cat Duchess (voice by Eva Gabor) and three kitten : pianist Berlioz (Dean Clark voice) , painter Toulouse (Gary Dubin) sanctimonious Marie . When the loyal butler learns that Madame is planning to give her entire fortune to them he attempts to take them . As the butler Edgar overhears her will leaves everything to the cats until their death, he abducts to eliminate them . However, his plans are ruined when a pair of dogs named Lafayette and Napoleon give chase . Edgar abandons the cats in a field before heading back to Paris. With the help of a smooth talking tomcat (voice by Phil Harris) felines set to inherit a fortune from their owner try to make it back home after a jealous butler kidnaps them and leaves them in the country . This amusing cartoon has great animated sequences well staged with stylish and vitality , adventure , romance , outstanding final and results to be pretty entertaining . There are great songs , enjoyable action sequences in countryside , including amusing ending confrontation at the climax of the film . An imaginative and jolly Disney adaptation being inspired by the true story of a Parisian family of cats, circa 1910, that inherited a fabulous fortune , including brilliant drawings and catching score by George Bruns .This was originally intended as a two-part, live-action installment of the TV series Disneyland (1954). Originally there was meant to be a direct-to-video sequel titled AristoCats II , it was intended for a 2007 release, but production got canceled back in 2006. The funny characters fascinating Visual Style and Humor in one of Disney's best of the 70s . This was the last animated feature to be approved by Walt Disney and the studio's first animated feature to be entirely completed after his death. It should be noted, however, that Disney had spent time working on the story for The rescuers (1977) , released seven years later , around the time Jungle Book (1967) entered production. This agreeable animation movie contains a lively and enjoyable musical score by George Bruns .motion picture was well directed by Wolfgang Reitherman helped by Eric Larson , in fact this was the last film in which Larson worked as a supervising animator ; from then on he concentrated on training the younger animators that came to the studio during the seventies and eighties a good craftsman from Disney factory . Director Reitherman often animated fast action sequences or dances , and known for 're-using' animation from older films and placing them in newer films . He co-directed several Disney movies such as Aristocats , Jungle Book , 101 Dalmatians , Peter Pan , Cinderella , Dumbo , among others .
After Walt Disney's death from cancer in 1966, his studio had no clue what to do with itself. The unfortunate result of this confusion was the first film of the Disney Dark Age (1970-1988), The Aristocats (1970).Outside of Maurice Chevalier's song over the opening credits and the psychedelic insanity of 'Everybody Wants to be A Cat,' this film is forgettable. The story feels like a retooled version of 101 Dalmatians (1961) with less interesting characters. And while Dalmatians possessed one of the greatest Disney villains of all time in Cruella, The Aristocats features what may be the worst Disney villain ever, Edgar the butler. The animation is poor, with every frame reeking of cheapness.An unpopular opinion to be sure, but there it is. And it's coming from someone who enjoyed the film as a child, showing that not all childhood favorites hold up. Unlike the other Disney films, this one really does look down on its audience, pandering to the kids every single moment.
This is a pretty well-crafted film for the young and uncritical watcher, full of amusing characters, and with a villain who is not particularly scary or evil; he's almost just a victim of circumstances. I'm glad that so many people have enjoyed this film without reservations and remember it fondly. Coming to a first viewing as an adult, there were points that gave me pause.For a story set in France there seem to be rather few characters who sound French-- but I suppose the idea is that American children will more readily connect with familiar accents. Eva Gabor's elegantly Continental Duchess seems right at home, but somehow her kittens turned out pure USA. Well, these aren't the things that matter to kids.It's too bad that the period setting wasn't developed further; the music in many period pieces is inoffensively anachronistic, but putting jazz into 1910, at the height of the ragtime era, seems like a wasted opportunity. It wouldn't have been too hard to concoct a fun gang of cats who played snappy rags.Giving the 'hepcats' identities largely through nationality isn't so bad (again, not many French in this Paris), but the 'Chinese' cat?!! I know other reviewers must have commented on this notorious racial faux pas. 'Shun Gon' appears to be a Siamese, but with the squinty eyes, buck teeth and broken English more typical of a wartime anti-Japanese propaganda cartoon. He even plays piano with chopsticks, just in case we hadn't already gotten the joke about those quaint, funny Far-East types. Evidently at the Disney studio, even in 1970, all Asians were alike-- and were caricatures. How could any major organization based in California be so oblivious to the presence and feelings of the many Chinese, Japanese and Thai Californians, not to mention those living elsewhere? For shame! At least 'Shun Gon' has little closeup screen time, though his lyrics in 'Everybody Wants to Be a Cat' are memorably lame orientalisms: 'Shanghai, Hong Kong, Egg Foo Yong! Hya ha ha ha ha ha! Fortune cookie always wrong! Hya ha ha!' Well, enough about that.As an animated feature rather than a cartoon, the world of 'The Aristocats' largely functions close to the real laws of physics, so it seemed a startling departure when the overtaxed piano at Scat Cat's jam session falls through the floor, and then each successive floor below before coming to rest. I hope that was a deserted building! (with a harp in it?) Who'd be repairing the damage? Luckily O'Malley would soon be moving out.Then there's dear Madame; she seems to have become unhinged by her experiences, for at the end she announces her intention of taking in EVERY STRAY CAT IN Paris. Yes, but-- Well, just picture it! And spaying/neutering wasn't the custom then; surplus kittens were simply put into a sack and drowned. But of course Madame wouldn't permit that. One tries to imagine the scene a few years hence...But still, for the young and uncritical watcher this is a film to enjoy. Why spoil it with too much grownup reality?
Walt Disney finally produced(before his untimely death) this delightful animated feature film that focuses on cats, as a rich Madame living in Paris in the early 20th century intends to leave her fortune to her beloved cat Duchess and her three kittens. Unfortunately, her greedy butler finds out about it, and so decides to 'catnap' them, in order that he can inherit her wealth by default, but doesn't count on stray cat Thomas O'Malley to come to the rescue, along with his other animal friends, and give Edgar the butler the kick in the pants he deserves... Most appealing film that cat lovers will especially appreciate. True, the plot isn't that original or inspired, but filled with such good characters and songs like 'Everybody Want's To Be A Cat' that it is of little consequence.
The 1970's began and many classics got born that decade.Disney had Aristocats one of the many clips the Disney special here in Denmmark shows every Christmas.There are many memorable jazz era songs.Paris looks splendid as in reality.The usual evil butler are some of the highlights.Duchess and her kittens must go back to Paris after being taken away by the butler.Too much cuteness is the con of the movie.It's not any Fantasia, but just some lively and lighthearted entertainment.But if you and your family wants some animated entertainment for the weekend buy this movie.7/10
This is the final full-length animated feature film that was given the nod from Walt Disney. A family of Parisian cats are set to inherit the fortune of a wealthy Madame, but was kidnapped by a jealous butler, who left the cats in the countryside. Trying to find their way back home, the family of four encounter an adventurous alley cat, who tries to help them return home and reclaim their fortune.The setting is very upscale, as aristocracy is emphasized in this film. The animation is not as colorful or vibrant as earlier Disney films, and the plot and story are not as exciting or intriguing; it has a slow, lazy feel and pace to it. But, there are some nice action scenes, including the part where the animals confront the butler. The romance between the Thomas O'Malley and Duchess cat characters have some great chemistry. My favorite scene is the 'Everybody Wants To Be A Cat' song sequence - very catchy, jazzy and swinging of a performance! Overall, more of a slightly above average Disney film, but still a nice one for the family.Grade B
Berlioz said it right! Though this movie was not-by any means-the best movie Disney has come out with, it definitely had a sort of bounce to it that kept me until the end- even going to the extents of making me consider watching it again! Though the story line was rather linear and predictable, the events that transpired along the way, coupled with a lovable set of characters and some great tunes, kept things lively. However, if I was rating this movie for its characters and music alone, I'd have given it more then 7/10. The only real drawbacks to this otherwise wonderful film can be found in two main areas: The animation and the mediocre child singers. The animation was a bit sketchy throughout the movie, especially when it came to moments of action and close ups. I am aware, however, that this was originally created in the 70s, a time when the traditional, hand- drawn methods were prevalent. This does not excuse the artists behind the less than satisfactory performance, however, especially when it's compared to the stellar performance, say, of the Fox and the Hound and Bambi.Moving onDisney has a good reputation for some pretty amazing child singers, so I was disappointed by the ones in The Aristocats. Sure, they were excellent voice actors, but the same praise cannot be given to their singing, butchered further by the lower quality audio recordings of the time period. With that in mind, however, the adult singers in the movie were ear candy. But now, onto the good stuff!Maybe it was because of their diverse accents, but I must admit, each and every character, whether they be primary, secondary, or just tagging along for the ride, were portrayed amazingly. Though the majority of these characters were cut-and-paste stereotypes, their dialogue kept them afloat. With that in mind, however, there is some racial stereotyping, so if you're easily offended, don't watch this movie! Normally, I dislike static characters, but because their script was so cleaver and natural, I found myself laughing at their clichés instead of weeping, which is a good thing! Secondly, the music-heavily inspired by swing and jazz-was exceptional, and the song 'Everybody Wants to be a Cat' will most defiantly be stuck in my head for days to come. The overtures and subtle orchestral pieces residing or bridging each scene-living up to Disney's unprecedented standards-were top notch as well!And that concludes it! Enjoy, folks, and be cool.'If there be animals inside, expect a review!'~Mike
In 1920s France an eccentric Duchess plans to leave her estate to her privileged kitties (Cattingtons?). Her nefarious, Prince Charles-lookalike butler overhears her plans and schemes to have the cats disappeared. He drugs them, for some reason, and dumps them in the countryside. Surely a quick warm up in the oven would have been a more foolproof plan. And why even bother disposing of the cats? Surely getting rid of the Duchess should be his first priority. I mean she could potentially live for another 25 years.Once out in the French countryside they meet up with jiving, self-confident stray Tom (that's an original name for an animated cat) who makes it his mission to take them back to Paris. He's basically a feline Baloo. He's even voiced by Phil Harris. Along the way they meet various characters and eventually confront the Butler who plotted against them.If it sounds familiar that's because it's basically a rewritten version of Disney's Jungle Book. It even has King Louie type of cat. This isn't really a bad thing, but it lacks the necessary spark to make it a classic. The animation is colorful and the period French setting provides some lovely backgrounds. It's just not anything too special, sadly.
I saw this film when it was re-released in the cinema when I was a child and I really enjoyed it then. In fact, I still enjoy it as an adult.Like most Disney films from the 1960s to 1980s, the animation style is sketchy and often flickery, in spite of it being smoother when the cat band members walk in silhouette towards the end of 'Everybody Wants to Be a Cat' while the backgrounds are beautifully drawn, especially the interior of Madam's mansion, the surroundings of Paris and the countryside, although the backgrounds at night are not quite as colourful as the ones I've already mentioned. The character designs are generally detailed but Roquefort was the most simplistic of them all. As for the music, most of the songs were catchy and memorable, particularly 'The Aristocats (along with the simple opening sequence),' 'Scales and Arpeggios,' 'Thomas O'Malley' and 'Everybody Wants to Be a Cat,' while the background music was authentic in some parts and jazzy in others. The storyline is unique to other Disney films since nobody dies and it is not quite as bittersweet as some of Disney's earlier efforts (e.g. 'Dumbo') but it contains humour such as Edgar's use of the phrase, 'straight from the horse's mouth' much to Frou-Frou's annoyance and the ending between Napoleon and Lafayette and the sentiment of the romance between Duchess and Thomas O'Malley. I also liked the transitions between the scenes where Duchess is concerned about Madam getting worried about her and the kittens and Madam discovering their disappearance in one scene and looking out of the window all forlorn in another. Edgar is a bumbling villain if not as sinister as the likes of Ursula, Jafar and Cruella DeVill, Madam is caring, Duchess is a doting mother, Berlioz and Toulouse are boisterous (I loved Toulouse's commando-type jumping actions) and Marie is adorable. The geese are amusing as well and Thomas is suave. I also liked the voice acting and the play fight scene between the kittens.Overall, this is a rather fun romp from the Disney Classics canon with very catchy music, appealing characters and a witty, sharp and sometimes moving storyline. 9/10.
The Aristocrats is Disney's 20th Animated Disney Cannon from the House Of Mouse and tells the tale of a débutante who pretty well off as she has a cat called Duchess(voiced by Eva Gabor)who goes missing along with her three kittens as their owner's evil butler wants to dispose of them so that he can get the money(yeah you could say he is related to Cruella De Vil in a way). Along the way and Duchess meets a charming ladies man called Thomas O Malley(Phil Harris who I think voiced Babloo in The Jungle Book back in 1966 the year Walt Disney died)an alley cat who stumbles across Duchess and her three kittens and together the three go back to Paris to find Duchess's owner again.So do I like this movie; well the music is pretty similar to the 2009 49th Animated flick The Princess & The Frog which has jazz music too but that was set in 1920s New Orleans,The Aristocrats was set in Paris 1910(yeah JAZZ music in Paris; I had no idea that Jazz music was in Paris France till this came out).Overall I found this movie to be good. Is it the best animated movie of all time NO,but is it a timeless classic YES it is,but its not my personal favourite. So I'm giving it a 7 out of 10.The music: 4/5 The Plot: 3/5 (cause it reminded me of the cat version of Lady & The Tramp). Voice Acting: 4/5
THE ARISTOCATSThis film is good, but it is not as good as a lot of the other Disney classics... but it is also not the worst.The movie is about a wealthy lady who loves her cat and her 3 kittens so much that she writes her will out to the cats. When the butler hears this, he decides that the cats have to go. Once the cats have been dumped. They have to find their way back home to Paris with the help of an alley cat named O'Malley.At the beginning of the movie, I was thinking that the animation was not as good in this one compared to some of the earlier ones.There were some great characters and some really funny moments. My favourite characters were Napoleon & Lafayette. They were funny.Some of the voice talents were recognisable instantly. Phil Harris & Sterling Holloway were the main 2 that I recognised straight away. Phil has done a lot of Disney voices... but i think his most famous was Baloo the Bear in the Jungle Book. Sterling has also done a lot of voices, but I think his most famous is Winnie the Pooh.I also really like Pat Buttram's voice... he has done a few voices and every time I recognise his voice and it makes me laugh.The songs in this film are OK... they are not really as catchy as some of the other classic songs. But they got my feet tapping.I will give this film 6 out of 10.It is a good movie, but there was not really anything memorable in it. It felt like it was missing some of the Disney magic that is critical in a Disney Classic.For more reviews, please like my Facebook page:https://www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204
In 1910 Paris, a cat named Duchess (Eva Gabor) lives comfortably in a mansion with her three kittens, Marie (Liz English), Berlioz (Dean Clark) and Toulouse (Gary Dubin), and her wealthy owner Madame Bonfamille (Hermione Baddeley). Madame writes her will along with her eccentric lawyer, and decides to leave her vast wealth to her beloved cats. Her dedicated butler Edgar (Roddy Maude-Roxby) overhears this, and, outraged at being left out of the will, kidnaps the cats and leaves them stranded in the countryside. Frightened and alone, they come across a charming drifter cat named Thomas O'Malley (Phil Harris), who teaches the privileged cats about the joys of being a wanderer.Apart from the obvious similarities to Disney's previous efforts, Lady and the Tramp (1955) and 101 Dalmatians (1961), there are two things about The Aristocats that troubled me. The first is the plot, that paints clumsy butler Edgar as the villain. Of course, dumping a family of cats in the countryside to die isn't the nicest thing to do, but after hearing the woman he's dedicated his life to leave her fortune to a bunch of f*****g cats, you can kind of sympathise with the poor guy. The other is the ending, that sees (spoiler ahead!) lovable tramp O'Malley welcomed into the aristocracy - shiny collar and all - because it seems the upper classes just won't have any individuality in their midst.This was the final film Walt Disney greenlit before his death in 1966, and one that had five of Disney's so-called Nine Old Men on animating duties. It could be seen as one the final 'classic' animated films that Disney produced before they experienced a difficult decade or so, and it does retain that warm, familiar feeling that the likes of Beauty and the Beast (1991) and The Lion King (1994) lacked (although they are certainly considered amongst Disney's best achievements). The songs are wonderful, particularly the standout Everybody Wants To Be a Cat, headed by Scatman Crothers and featuring one of Disney's funniest casually- racist characters. Yet the similarities to other, better Disney classics damage the film, and apart from the beautiful, hand-drawn animation and top-tapping tunes, The Aristocats struggles to stand out.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
A Paris-setting Disney traditional animation from 1970, THE ARISTOCATS does present a foreign-looking style of a 2-dimensional continental outlook and tell us a not-so-adventurous little vignette of a fairytale, a personification of animals (cats, dogs, a rat, a horse and geese), the story is about a gentrified quartet of pet cats (a mother with her three offering), who are outcast into the wild by a reprobate butler since they are in his way to inheritance of a wealthy Madame (the pets' owner). Soon they will meet their alleycat counterpart, a very gentleman-like one (male, of course), they enjoy a stint of adventures and a great big band revelry, then return home and sabotage the butler's scheme, easy and simple. Running within a succinct 78 minutes, this animation epitomises nearly every trademark of Disney, a children-prone narrative, an illuminating storyline, adorably main characters with quirky sidekicks, cartoony villains and most significantly an unerringly happy ending. But what's more conspicuous in this Walt Disney's last output is the music renditions, French chanson led by Maurice Chevalier's title song from the opening credits, marches with classical-adaptive show tunes and bookends with a Jazz-infused razzle-dazzle, all is done in nifty set pieces and nimble workmanship. Also the benign caricatures of bourgeois French (for example, the mother cat keeps claiming they're more than pets to their Madame, who will be totally alone in the world without them, although it may be the truth, but her tone of snobbish does niggle me quite a bit) and gormless British (the twin geese and their uncle) are simultaneously entertaining and cringeworthy. The voice cast is mellifluously solid, my own pick is Scatman Holloway's Scat Cat (a reincarnation and tribute of Louis Armstrong), while the action sequences between the butler and the two bandit dogs (Napoleon and Lafayette) are the high moment of the film, idiotic, yes, but masterfully concocted and slickly edited nonetheless, which nowadays has been substituted by grandiose spectacles in the mainstream animation branch. So, for me ruefully it has been too late to watch this film for the first time at my awkward adult age, it is pure fun but the aftertaste is also fun-sized, no soul-searching commentary could be extracted, after all, it is a bona fide Disney fare, it you dig the franchise, for sure you will like it.
Three years after the gigantic hit 'The Jungle Book', Walt Disney's final green-lit animated movie was released, called 'The Aristocats'. This movie is the beginning of the era where the quality and impact of the animated films went downhill, known as the 'Dark Era'.The story is very basic. An aristocratic cat owner is planning her will and writes that all of her kittens will receive her money. The butler overheads this and kidnaps the cats to put them in the middle of nowhere. The cats then have to return home.The characters aren't annoying, but they are extremely boring and cutesy. Duchess is the classy, sophisticated mother cat, Thomas is the suave charmer and an alley cat, Duchess' children each have a talent; the red one can paint, the black one can play jazz music, and the white girl kitten can sing and is exactly like her mother. Edgar is the silliest villain to come out of Disney. The characters could have been extremely likable, but there is not enough time for their personalities to show and expand on.This soundtrack also has a jazz-like theme to it. Most of the songs are not that memorable, except for 'Everybody Wants to be A Cat', which is a fun, catchy song. The title song does not really stand out, and 'Scales and Appegios' is a cute song.Th xerography in this movie looks really bad. You see the sketch marks on every frame, and they don't even try to clean up and polish the sketchiness. Some of the characters movements Re very choppy, and the entire film looks extremely cheap. This is one of WDAS weakest animated films, but not the worst.With thin and boring plot and characters, one memorable song, and bad animation, this is one of the weaker movies in the canon. Adults and kids have a big chance of getting bored, but if you want a cutesy kids movie, this one you might like.
This is apparently the last film project to be approved by Mr. Walt Disney and I think he would have been proud of it because even after his death they knew how to remain faithful to his style. This thanks to the Nine Old Men and their long experience with 'Uncle Walt'.The movie is utterly charming although, I have to admit, it isn't perfect and it also has a silly side to it. The silly side is the fact that the cats are going to heir Madame's fortune. I mean, what use animals would have of money? No matter how clever they are, animals are animals. They don't know what money is and they don't understand the concept of money.Having that said, Madame Adelaide Bonfamille is a loving, kind-hearted eccentric old lady and if you don't take the mentioned silly side of the film too seriously (and it's important not to), it makes for a very rewarding movie experience.Many characters are great fun. Madame Adelaide Bonfamille is not only a very nice old lady but also funny. The very elderly and eccentric lawyer Georges Hautecourt is truly amusing, I wish more elderly people could be as playful as him. The butler Edgar is much fun either, except when he goes crazy and his intentions become darker at the ending. The hound dogs Napoleon and Lafayette are so stupid that they are hilarious. Uncle Waldo is unquestionably one of the most hilarious characters – despite his short role, he is such a delight. Roquefort (the mouse) and Frou Frou (the horse) are funny in their own way.The movie has high-quality artwork, originality, great lines and delightful voices from the acting business such as Roddy Maude-Roxby, Hermione Baddeley, Phil Harris, Eva Gabor, Charles Lane, Sterling Holloway, Vitto Scotti, Paul Winchell, Pat Buttram, Bill Thompson and Thurl Ravenscroft.Title in Portugal: 'Os Aristogatos'.
When it comes to Disney animation, everybody has one favourite, and while often that boils down to the 'classic' films like Bambi or Snow White, mine's from a later era: Aristocats, the best of Wolfgang Reitherman's works for Disney in my opinion. He did other enjoyable films like 'Jungle Book', '101 Dalmatians' or 'Robin Hood', but somehow Aristocats is the most enjoyable, even if it's very simple. It just works: We have cute kittens, we have a love story like in 'Lady and the Tramp' in Duchesse and Tom O'Malley, we have a Mouse seeking the help of a gang of street-cats, we have two English geese on their Euro-trip, we have a delightfully inapt villain and two ferocious (if old) dogs, and we have a lot of really good songs and music and playful animation. There's simply nothing not to like about this film, and it's as fun to watch as an adult as it was when I was small and saw it on the big screen. And that's the biggest compliment I can make to this masterwork!
The AristoCats (1970) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Another charming winner from Disney about a mother cat and her three kittens who are kidnapped and placed in the country when the butler realizes that their rich owner has left her fortune the felines and not him. Out in the country the cats come across another one known as O'Malley who plans to help them get back to their owner. THE ARISTOCATS is without question a very fun, action packed and all around good time. This here is certainly the studio at their very best as we get just about everything that one could hope for. I think what makes this film so successful are the characters and their vocal performers. I really thought the O'Malley cat was a terrific character and certainly the most memorable in the picture. I really loved his street toughness and actor Phil Harris did a tremendous job at bringing him to life. The character is just so charming that you can't help but love him. The same is true for the mother Duchess and the vocal work by Eva Gabor. Scatman Crothers is also very memorable in his role as Scat Cat. The songs 'Thomas O'Malley Cat' and 'Ev'rybody Wants to Be a Cat' are both extremely entertaining as well. The animation is wonderful, as you'd expect, and the film has a very fast pace thanks to the wonderful little adventure that the cats are on.
I got this one on Blu-ray from my public library. It is entertaining fluff, essentially a series of cartoon-like scenes to support the central story of a family of aristocratic cats in a wealthy Paris family. It was good to hear the familiar voices of such old-time stars as Phil Harris, Eva Gabor, Scatman Crothers, and ventriloquist Paul Winchell.The family of cats live with their elderly owner who is re-writing her will. The old faithful butler overhears part of the conversation with her lawyer, on her death the whole estate will go to her cats, and after they die then the butler will inherit everything.The butler cannot stand the thought of waiting 12 years for them to die, plus their 'nine lives', so this being a Disney movie, he plots to have them disappear to the countryside, and then he will be the sole heir.Most of the movie is their road trip of sorts, assisted by a nice male alley cat, back to Paris and their mansion. Along the way they get into a number of close calls. Meanwhile the butler has to go back to the drop point to retrieve his hat and umbrella, clues that could lead the police to him.Fun to see this 'blast from the past'.
Yet another pleasant if less than original Disney animation family entertainment, with instead of 101 Dalmatians we get four cute cats (plus one) on the run, trying to escape the machinations of a nefarious butler who sees his way to a rich inheritance blocked by his rich mistress's preference for her cats over him.The déjà-vu feelings kick in even more with the familiar Disney vocal talents of Phil (Baloo) Harris, Eva Gabor and even Scatman Crothers taking prominence, plus even the background music has shades of 'Baby Elephant Walk' and 'The Pink Panther' at times, while themain 'rough with the smooth' romance of O'Malley the alley-cat and posh-paws Duchess looks back to the studio's own 'The Lady And The Tramp'.As ever there are cute scenes involving the three kittens and a friendly mouse, some entertaining chase scenes, a nick-of-time rescue and of course a happy ending. The music is fine, especially the two big tunes 'O'Malley The Alley-Cat' and 'Everybody Wants To Be A Cat', which gets a full jazz work-out courtesy of Crothers and band. There's even a touch of topical psychedelic colouring at one point.The animation is mostly fine, especially the depiction of famous Parisian landmarks although I detected some issues with speech-synchronisation. But yet again, Disney studios prove themselves purveyors of pleasant animated feature-fun, even if I wouldn't rank 'The Aristocats' as best in show.
This is what I got to say, this is the most creative movie title I've ever heard of. Instead of aristocrats you get aristocats. +25 for creative movie titleThe characters are well developed and funny. Thomas O'Malley is the tramp and Duchess is the lady. Is it Lady and the Tramp with cats? Most likely no, but I enjoy those star crossed lovers. Edgar is hilarious, not sinister, but not lame at all. The kittens are adorable and a great source for comic relief. The other animals are witty and funny. +20 for characters!The animation style is different from what Disney usually does, but I'll take it. It looks cool and choppy in a neat way! After Walt Disney passed away (I wish he was alive so their could be no Disney channel or those dumb CGI films that are not tangled), you don't expect perfection because he's not on the worker's butts making this movie perfect. Well this movie doesn't need to be perfect unlike Snow White and Cinderella, but it's just the way I like it. +21 for animationThe plot is simple, but excellent. Rich cats learning how to survive in the real world. They should do this to celebrities; that would be genius! The Aristocats has an enjoyable storyline. +23 for the story25+20+21+23=90 right? A 9/10 yes indeed!
What was with Walt Disney and cats: they are wicked and vengeful in 'Pluto's Judgment Day', innocent and playful in 'The Three Orphan Kittens' and 'Pinocchio', but then you got Lucifer in 'Cinderella' and the Siamese Cats in 'Lady and the Tramp'. Maybe it's not surprising coming up from an artist whose most iconic creation is a mouse well, whatever was between Walt Disney and cats, it thankfully ended when he approved the making of 'The AristoCats' (he unfortunately wouldn't live up to see the film).And that's how the first film made after Walt Disney's death featured an all cats' cast, in an animal-centred world in the same vein than the previous 'Jungle Book'. Yet, despite their lasting popularity, 'The Aristocats', 'Robin Hood', 'The Rescuers' or 'The Fox and the Hound' were hardly masterpieces. Indeed, there is a reason why people talked of a Disney Renaissance in 1989 when 'The Little Mermaid' was released. 'The AristoCats' is entertaining and fun but it was still carrying the mark of the 60's, with that sort of sketchy animation that reminds more of an elaborated story board than a complete cartoon.Is the rough look distracting? Yes, when it does remind that Golden Age is over, that no movie would ever equal in beauty such treasures as 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' or 'Pinocchio' (or even 'Lady and the Tramp') and maybe no, because on its own, it gives a sort of artistic touch and originality that remain pleasant to the eyes. The fact that the story takes place in Paris, circa 1910, seems to fit the draft look, as Paris must have been the most drawn town in the world. The sketches are amusedly displayed during the opening credits sequence, just like for 'Robin Hood' three years later. This kind of experiment is risky but works if you have a good story.The story: an old aristocratic woman, Madame de Bonnefamille, decided to leave her fortune to her female cat Duchess and her three kittens Marie, Berlioz and Toulouse, If anything happened to them, Edgar, the butler would inherit the fortune. Hearing the conversation between his mistress and her lawyer, Edgar reveals his true villainous face and decides to get rid of the cats. The film is based on a true story but borrows more plot elements from other Disney classics, a villain motivated by greed although not as wicked and evil as Cruella De Vil, the romance between Duchess and Thomas O'Malley, in fact, the whole picture plays like a feline version of 'Lady and the Tramp' with the jazzy and swingy mood of 'The Jungle Book'.However, the deja-vu feeling operates more on the technical aspect. Many sequences notably the party with the alley cats is like shot-by-shot retaken from 'The Jungle Book''s monkey part and the dance in 'Robin Hood', Lady Cluck and Little John's duo is exactly like King Louie and Baloo, and Marian has the same dance movements than Marie. These lazy bits of drawings stroke me when I was a kid, now, I don't pay much attention to it, probably distracted by the memory of Uma Thurman swaying her hips like Marie during the twist dance contest in 'Pulp Fiction' (if only for having inspired the iconic scene, 'The AristoCats' deserved to exist). And while I'm writing, I have the catchy 'Everybody wants to be a cat' sung by Scatman Crothers in mind and the extraordinary piano falling through the building's floors and I feel like I should be more enthusiastic.Like every Disney classic, 'The AristoCats' has a great deal of music, starting with the opening songs sung by Maurice Chevalier. I'm not familiar with all his work, but I know he's an eternal icon of the famous 'Gay Paris', (in the cheerful meaning) with his boater hat and eternal smile, he embodied this French joie de vivre and it would have been an unforgettable omission not to have him sing for 'The AristoCats' (he sings in the French version, 'naturellement') . He died in 1972, but I hope his hardcore fans have a soft spot for his last but significant contribution to the film industry. And this is –I guess- the secret of 'The Aristocats', its appeal relies more on the little details than the story itself, without peripheral characters, the film would have probably drown in its own cuteness.And that's why even a cat-themed film needed dogs. It's a masterstroke to have inserted Napoleon and Lafayette, one of the craziest and most endearing pairing from any Disney film. Both would be featured in two extraordinary chase scenes involving poor Edgar. When the first chase next to the old mill starts, it's the first bit of action of the film and a classic slapstick moment (with a clever allusion to 'Mary Poppins'), your trust on the film is reinforced, at the second chase, its comical repetition at best. Such simple things are essential because they establish the difference between a good film and a great film. 'The Fox and the Hound' had a screwball chase moment too, but it involved serious characters while the goofy ones were stuck in a lousy worm-catching subplot. Comic relieves ask for exuberance, over the top and hilarious moments. Lafayette and Napoleon elevate 'The AristoCats' into its classic status despite minor flaws.Besides, they contributes to one of the most original and memorable Disney films' endings, when the two dogs starts howling in a sort of discotheque ambiance and realizing it's the end, Napoleon solemnly declares  'Wait a minute. I'm the leader, I say when it's the end.  (and after it bumps into his head)  it's the end'. If 'The Aristocats' is a plate with the music as dressing, well, take Napoleon and LaFayette as the salt and pepper that gives the film all its flavor. Having said that, 'Bon Appétit'!
It seems like most people on this site really love this film. I really don't want to diss it, but to me there are some really great elements but they are overcome by the film's major flaws.I loved the vocal characterizations. Phil Harris, Eva Gabor, George Lindsey, Pat Buttram, Sterling Holloway, the women who did the geese, all outstanding. The animation is terrific. The journey from the country back to Paris is a series of wonderful scenes. I wish they'd concentrated more on that part.The biggest problem with the film is the villain, Edgar. Yes, he is amusing. But that's not the villain's role. Edgar is clearly playing the usual role of the villain's sidekick or goofy henchman. The villain is supposed to be something of a challenge to defeat and a real threat. Edgar is neither. So Thomas O'Malley is left with little to defeat. A hero can only be as good as the villain is bad and Edgar is too goofy to be a real threat.The Sherman Brothers also let us down. After a promising opening with Maurice Chavalier (did anyone sing this after seeing the movie? Most Sherman Brothers songs audience go home singing) we get nothing memorable. Even the 'Everybody Wants to be a Cat' is sadly, flat. Perhaps if Louis Armstrong had actually done the role of Scat Cat he might have turned it into something but instead Scatman Crothers is given the unenviable task of replacing Satchmo. As anyone, he falls short of the goal.The script also lets the Aristocats down at the oddest times. The scene where Edgar tries to get rid of the cats and faces off with Napoleon and Lafayette plays like a Warner cartoon, not Disney. There is no sense of danger or real threat to the cats. Compare this to the horror of Pinochio finding himself turning into a donkey on Pleasure Island. Then what should be a heartwarming scene where Dutchess and the kittens are reunited with their mistress is skipped entirely. That should have been a great moment in the film, instead its a hole.Again, there's much to like about this film but I think 'The AristoCats' severely missed Walt who I can't help but think would have demanded more and made changes to bring out more of the heart and the danger that would have made this a real adventure instead of just a animated cat film for kids.
This movie was just so unbelievably adorable! All the characters from this film were just so cute and endearing, I loved them all. The animated movies done by the Disney company during the sixties and the seventies were both cute and funny (And quite underrated as well) and this movie wasn't the exception, being one of my favorite movies from all the time. It was incredibly enjoyable from beginning to end.The animation was quite good, with beautiful sceneries and a pleasant character design. It also have catchy songs and nice music. All those qualities are enough to make this film a delightful experience for the whole family.An underrated classic film from Disney, that deserves way more appreciation and love.
This is a film that is incredibly underrated. At the tender age of two, I went through a fanatical phase of watching The Aristocats again and again, at least twice a day; a craze that still makes sense to me now. This is an incredibly simple storyline that works wonders with both kids and adults, and I was shocked to learn that it was only given 6.9 on this website (IMDB), rated lower than The Fox and the Hound, which is nowhere near as brilliant (despite still being good). Although some of the elements hark back to previous Disney hits, the ideas (for the most part) remain original and very enjoyable. Phil Harris, who also lends his dulcet tones to Little John in Robin Hood, and Baloo the Bear in The Jungle Book, plays the classic low-born hero in this romantic journey of self-discovery and fighting to get back home. It is also very funny, with the three main comedy characters (Napoleon, Lafayette and Roquefort) being excellently distributed throughout the film. In addition to this, the evil character, in this case a resentful butler, is not too scary, and has just the right balance of maliciousness and humour. The addition of swing to the ensemble makes this a film that few can rival. The originality of Cats (universally cute creatures) in Paris (a centre of romance and culture) is unrivalled. 'Everybody wants to be a cat'? After that, I certainly do!
Another great Disney classic, with animals and humans interacting in funny ways. And of course the plot, which involved missing cats! Wouldn't you know... the butler did it! What a surprise, haha. It's so stereotypical. I loved the humor presented, the indication throughout the movie that the alley cat fell in love with the mother cat... the kids interactions with them and the geese I thought were annoying actually. But then the uncle who was drunk came along and was amusing. I liked those dogs who did their best to stop the butler on several occasions, and of course the alley cats who played the fun music.This is one of those types of movies where there's no swearing or sex and it's just a fun family classic. It's too bad that the movies these days are quite opposite.Rated 7/10.
I think that this is based on a French story but I know neither the title nor the story itself.Never before in this world have I ever seen such a loved and overprotected family of cats! Their wealthy owner is a former opera singer and she is almost never seen not holding and obsessing over them wherever she is! She can never stop cuddling them - even while dancing with an admirer! 'Meow, meow!' they should say (in English 'put me down, woman!'). She is madly obsessed with her cats and it doesn't end there... she even inherits her will to the cats! What would they benefit from lots and lots of money, being pets? It isn't just Madame who has this burning obsession of the cats; there's Frou-Frou the horse and even a MOUSE, for heaven's sake! Those cats are treated like and are regarded as royalty! Now I think people are too hard on the film's 'villain' Edgar the butler; he is overjoyed to hear that Madame will inherit her fortune to him - until he hears that the cats will get the money first and and poor Edgar is dismayed, especially knowing he'll die long before the family does. Like I said, how will a fortune benefit cats? He plans to catnap them and later drown them - how could he turn the idea down when it's so easy to accomplish?! Even if it is done out of greed? He doesn't drown them thanks to the antics of a duo of hound dogs and so begins the classy Duchess and her three fiery kittens' adventure as they find their way back home. Along the way, they meet Abraham de Lasey Guisuppe Casey Thomas O'Malley, a lovable alley-cat who falls tail over heels for Duchess, two well-to-do English geese whose constant hysterical laughter never fails to cheer me up on a blue day and Abraham de Lacey Giusppe Casey Thomas O'Malley's best friend Scat Cat and his gang of alley-cats. What will Edgar do when he is dismayed to find that the cats managed to return home? You'll have to watch and find out because this movie is fun and vivacious! Full of sentiment, laughter, adventure and jazzy music... 'I'm ready maestraw!' Ha ha, I find that so funny. The female kitten Marie says it and it's just such an iconic quote.Certified U and suitable for children of all ages with no violence, sex/nudity or bad language - 100% clean!I'm the reviewer! I'll decide when the it's the end of the review... it's the end of the review! Ha ha!
Perhaps one of the most underrated of all Disney films.The butler overhears madame's conversation of leaving everything in her will to her cats, but only after they are gone he will receive everything she possesses, not willing to wait this long he decides to dispense of the cats. After waking under a bridge from what they thought was a horrible nightmare, they realise it wasn't but they set off to get back to their madame which is some distance away. They quickly bump into a unfamiliar but charming alley cat who guides them to their destination, meeting some amusing characters along the way.All the characters and voices are simply fantastic, while the movie is surprisingly witty throughout, with a character for everyone to love and relate to. There are funny quotes throughout the film and even matched by great songs which you will be humming hours after seeing the film.
I don't think there has been an animated movie I have seen that much as the Aristocats. I have always been a cat loving person so that probably was the reason that I enjoyed it in the first place. But there is so much to like about this gem. The graphics are in no way comparable to today's standards but that doesn't hamper the movie in any way. The story is good, the characters are very entertaining (all of them without any exception) and not to forget there is so much funny scenes in it (the scenes with the dogs and butler Edgar are hilarious!). I really can't think of a single thing that would devalue the movie in any way. For me it is perfect, so I must give it the perfect score.
The film's story is very simple. A retired singing woman decides that when she dies, she will give her enormous fortune to her cats. Her butler Edgar isn't too happy with this and he cat naps the cats and leaves them in a ditch. A wise street cat later helps Dutchess and her small kittens to get back home safely. Nice and sound..... Not if Edgar can help it XD.Definitely one of my favorite Disney films. All the acting voices are well done, the story is short and sweet and the atmosphere of the film's premise is good at times as it changes.I've always got a favorite character in a Disney film and mine would be Edgar because he's a smart idiot who has been triggered to being a victim of not getting the enormous fortune. People see him as a villain but I see him as something else. He's greedy.All sums up. 8.3/10
Following Walt Disney's death, the studio was left rather lost as to  how to proceed. Though Disney relied on many deeply talented story  artists, concept artists, animators, and the like, his input had been  so tightly woven into the storytelling in Disney's work that merely his  shifting focus to other projects had caused the films to suffer.  Following his death, all the producers and director Wolfgang Reitherman  could think to do was imitate what had worked in the past.  Thus, we have The Aristocats, a straight lift of story elements from  101 Dalmations and The Lady and the Tramp that forgot to steal any of  the heart or innovation from either. The story, detailing the exploits  of a bunch of cats who just want to laze about and inherit a lot of  money for doing nothing, is unique for one reason alone. Though there  are many Disney movies in which the villain is more likable than the  protagonist, The Aristocats is the only one that made actively root for  the villain for purely moral reasons. See, Edgar, our 'villainous'  Butler, tries to do away with the cats some old hag is going to leave  all her money to so that he, the man who worked under the crazy witch  his entire life, can get some goddamn compensation. A  slapstick-triggered hitch in his plan causes the cats to be left by a  river bank instead, whereupon they jump into action and immediately  whine and cloy for a while until Phil Harris comes by and gets them to  actually do something.  And then there's lots of lame episodes with forgettable side characters  that I barely remember that mainly serve to pad out the thin plot to  feature length. Such fun moments are fine when the character is  actually entertaining, but, alas there's very little of that here  (though Scatman Crothers is always fun to watch...er, hear). The songs  by the normally exemplary Sherman Bros. are fine, but I struggle to  recall even one lyric or melody as I type this out. Anyway, Edgar gets  shipped off to Timbuktu, Phil Harris gets groomed into an aristocrat  because there's no room for individuality in the upper classes, and we  leave wanting to trample those annoying cats into the ground on our way  out.  Perhaps it isn't an AWFUL film, but it's so hard to care for the  characters we're supposed to fret for that what transpires basically  leaves us feeling like robotic husks that'll pump money into the Disney  machine even if the actual auteur himself is long gone.  Despite my indifference to the project as a whole, I was surprised to  find a few points that worked. Edgar, for all his bumbling and lack of  intimidating qualities, is great fun as a character, with some  ingenious comic animation by Milt Kahl (those who consider him a cold,  technical animator should look at this neglected piece that really  shows off the man's sense of humor). I can't help wondering whether the  story would have worked a lot better from his point of view. Kahl also  animates the Lawyer character, who doesn't get much screen time but  steals every scene he's in. Unfortunately, the other Disney animators  don't impress as much. Ollie Johnston and Frank Thomas, for all their  genius, really worked best when they had a good concept for a character  they could sink their teeth into. Their work here is technically adept,  but as empty as the prissy, vapid cats they're forced to work with.  There's really not much else to say. It's a safe, commercial work from  a studio trying to gather itself together after Disney's death.  Producers with far less vision began to grab hold of the animators,  cutting corners and cobbling together hackneyed concepts that would  make a buck and nothing else. There's not the amount of rampant copied  animation that there would be in the next Disney project, but the  opening credits (in which animation from the body is reused for no  reason other than cost cutting) is a grim sign of things to come.  I think it's around this point that American animation essentially dies  for years, and Disney's next project wouldn't help a bit.
There are days when I am convinced that the Universe knows deep down what is best for me. This was most recently evidenced when the VCR ate my copy of Aristocats and promptly died, thus taking my retrospective project hostage. Now whether it was the toxic nature of the film that killed the player or the independent actions of the player to commit such a noble act on behalf of my senses, who can really say? Nevertheless, I managed to overcome all obstacles to bare my mind one more time to the spiraling saga of the 'lost years' of Disney.Frankly, Aristocats seems a step back (if there can be one) from its predecessors. The animation is even more scratchy: pencil lines streak the characters with unprecedented gusto. Madame holds the unfortunate distinction of being one of the ugliest drawn characters Disney has ever spewed out, though none of her costars are beauty queens by a long shot. The only really successful character is Georges because his scratchy, wavering persona works in harmony with the style.The story is a shambles as well. I can't even give the film a heads up for being in Paris, for there's nothing remotely Parisian about it with the exception of the title sequence showcasing Maurice Chevallier (who by his presence makes that the best sequence of the whole film and nothing even happens during it). It's as if all the faults of the Jungle Book were given a shot of heroin and told to run with it. Jazzy music a few decades too early and enough beatnik to make me wonder if Woodstock was happening around the corner. Everybody wants to be a cat was so terribly out of context- the strobe-lights, drum kits, scatting, drug references and occasionally raunchy (for Disney) lyrics were jarring and unpleasant on the palette. We cannot even get away from cloying child characters, though thankfully, we respect the human- animal interaction boundaries this time. I have to say the only things remotely charming in this film were the odious comic relief in the form of the country dogs and, to a lesser extent, the British geese. Two things that had absolutely nothing to do with the story, but were obvious fillers since the producers saw what was essential could in no way stand on its own.If you can't have interesting leads or music or a good plot, the least you can do is offer up an entertaining foe. However, Edgar is undeniably the worst villain in the Disney canon- not remotely clever enough to be a believable menace. Seriously- his math and reasoning aren't even junior high level, he decides to kill the cats before the benefactor even dies (therefore not only not speeding up his inheritance a minute, but also allowing her the opportunity to adopt even younger cats) and he drugs them when they would have trusted him enough to let him stuff him in a sack (as he actually DID in the last act). To top it off, he's not a serious physical threat or, especially condemning, remotely funny. Even Robin Hood managed to scrape up a villain who could do one of those!Not to say that there are no redeeming qualities. Though Everybody Wants to Be a Cat bugs me in context, it is not entirely offensive to the ears and is quite catchy. Eva Gabor and Phil Harris are great, though they were both better in other Disney roles- him as Baloo and her as Miss Bianca. Maurice Chevallier coats the opening with his characteristic lovable frenchiness- the one place that takes advantage of the Parisian setting. Speaking of settings, though the character animation was quite hideous, the backgrounds were lovely- especially at times where they became almost soggy and washed out. It is, after all, still Disney.Everybody, even manic Disneylovers, has a certain film they unleash all their scorn and frustration on. Aristocats is mine, partly because its ugly and lackluster in the long line of progressively uglier and lacklust(ier) films, but mostly because by this point it seemed like they just didn't care. Previous efforts has been misguided and faltered in some way or another, but never had there been such an obvious abandonment before, though I'll reserve my judgement on the after a while yet.Quote of the film: Uncle Waldo- 'Prime Country Goose A la Provencale, stuffed with chestnuts'...? 'And basted in white wine.' Hic! O'Malley- Basted? He's been marinated in it!
I thought that The AristoCats was gonna be a good original type of Disney animation,it turned out to be nowhere as good as I thought,it was around 90 minutes long and it feels really short and the storyline doesn't really go anywhere.A wealthy old lady decides to make her death will and leaves her fortune to her beloved cats and in case anything happens to them the fortune will go to her butler,but the butler is furious and decides to get rid of the cats and hides them nowhere close for them to find the mansion,the four cats then meet a stray cat called Tomas O Meilly and he helps them out.
The Aristocats...not very entertaining for adults, although the kids may like it...and that's most likely what Disney folk had in mind. This one is very lame and lacks spark and imagination. Un-inspired...and un-inspiring. The animation..and the backgrounds..are almost completely run of the mill. The plot...predictable. You've seen it all before..and heard it before. But even a fairly decent cast can't elevate this up from being anything more than a piece of Disney tripe, and it's way below par in overall quality to its other out-pourings. I found it extremely boring. Recommended for the kiddies, perhaps...if you are an adult, find a good book to read instead.
I'm not a massive Disney fan, but my 7 year old son is starting to get into them, so we've built up quite a collection, and this is one of my favourites. We first saw this a couple of weeks ago and we must have see it half a dozen times since! OK, as others have pointed out, not the most complex or inventive of plots, but there's more to a film than that.Great characters, Phil Harris stealing the show as Thomas O'Malley, but Edgar the butler not far behind. The music is superb - my disabled son always insists that I lift him up and dance with him to 'Everybody wants to be Cat' this says it all. And 'Thomas O'Malley' is just as enjoyable.I'm not sure why some people have such a downer on this film other than a dislike of cats! And yes, it does take a few of its cues from '101 Dalmations', and maybe 'The Lady and the Tramp' (It's been a long time since I've seen that, so I'm not going to compare them), and while '101 Dalmations' is better in some ways, for me 'The Aristocats' is far more enjoyable. Isn't that what these films are about? Apart from 'Peter Pan' (now that is a 10/10 film), this is my favourite Disney film. My 7 year-old son loves it, his grumpy 41 year old dad loves it, so you can't ask much more of a family film.Superb!
The Aristorcats is a hilarious film that not many people have seen. Clearly not that many because it only got a 6.8. There is nothing wrong with it at all. It's my favorite of the Disney classics, which have tons of fantastic films already made. Like Beauty and the Beast, Snow White, and Peter Pan. The reason why The Aristorcats is so high on my list is because of how funny the film is. I hate to say this, but I don't blame Edgar for what he does. I probably would've had them taken care of too. I'd be devastated of some old bag who I'd been working with for so many years just decides to give her will to the cats. I'd of killed them also. I don't even like cats, so I wouldn't give a damn. I think that The Aristorcats is so funny and cute. There are many characters that are hilarious, like Edgar. The Aristorcats is my favorite of the Disney classics, and that's final. The Cat's out of the bag.The Aristorcats: ****/****
'The Aristocats' is classic Disney at it's best. It's not considered as the ultimate Disney classic along side the more well-known Disney-films, but it's a well-made and fun film that certainly deserves to be a Disney classic. 'Aristocats' is certainly a sure kids-pleaser, cause it has all the components for a fun kids film. I'll liked it very much as a kid. I'm not sure if this film is a sure pleaser to the adults, who could watch Disney classics for the nostalgia sake, but I still enjoy this film as an young adult.Storywise, 'Aristocats' may not be so complex or innovative, but it doesn't matter. This film was made on that period where the filmmakers followed the motto that the characters were the story and wise versa, which 'Aristocats' certainly shows. The characters make the film; they're all likable, fun, have great lines and have a great interaction with each other. The voice actors are also a part for making the characters so compelling (Eva Gabor as Duchess, Phil Harris as Thomas O'Malley and etc). A misconception could have been the dogs Napoleon and Lafayette, since they're showstoppers and haven't so much to do with the actual story, but fortunately they're fun and amusing characters and the scenes with them are pure gold.'Aristocats' is both entertaining and cute, but it's also a very funny cartoon. The animation style and look fits perfectly for the film's French surroundings (especially the city of Paris looks greats). The character animation and design is great. And the songs are really catchy too. My favorite is 'Scale and Arpeggios', but the title song is a cute song, along with 'Thomas O'Malley Cat' and the memorable show-stopper 'Everybody Want's To Be A Cat'. And the score by George Burns is a perfect fit for the film funny and emotional situations.Overall, 'Aristocats' is in my opinion the best Disney cartoon from the 70's and it's a film that deserves to both be seen and remembered. So what you're waiting for? Do your self a favor and share this Disney classic with your kids. It deserves to be in their memories.
The Aristocats is really quite charming, and is rated far too low on IMDb. The songs aren't as memorable as the ones in the Jungle Book, but they weren't bad at all, Everybody wants to be a Cat is a classic and the title song is brilliantly sung by Gigi's Maurice Chavelier. The animation is really lovely, the best sequence being the landscape of Paris in general. It looked beautiful. This is probably Disney's most relaxing animation I think, and as another reviewer quite rightly said, who doesn't love cats? Another great piece of animation was O' Malley looking into Duchess's eyes, as their romance was so believable while not obvious.(a good thing)The plot(about a greedy butler and a fortune, reminds me of Bailey's Billions) was a little unoriginal, but worked very well, and the script was really funny, especially the fights between the kittens. They remind me of me and my brother and 3 sisters, always fighting. My favourite scene was the chase of Edgar with the two dogs, who were always fighting about who was the leader. The voice talents were a delight, most notably Phil Harris, whom I recognised from the Jungle Book, and Eva Gabor, from the Rescuers. The supporting characters, namely Scat Cat, were also well done. In conclusion, a really pleasant film, that is definitely underrated. 8.5/10 Bethany Cox
Walt Disney's 20th animated feature was the last one to be greenlighted by the great man himself (he died in late 1966) and is not generally considered to be among their very best output. The main problem is that, on the surface, the film seems merely to be the feline version of either LADY AND THE TRAMP (1955) or 101 DALMATIONS (1961) both of which are certainly more beloved by fans Even so, being both an animation and cat lover, I dug this reasonably bouncy concoction in which a pampered female cat (voiced by Eva Gabor) and her three little kittens are thrown out onto the streets of Paris by a wealthy lady (Hermione Baddeley)'s greedy butler. Luckily, they meet a streetwise alley cat (Phil Harris) who guides them on the journey back and are further aided along the way by a feline jazz band (led by Scatman Crothers) and two helpful and amiably dopey dogs; meanwhile at home, Edgar the butler celebrates his supposed inheritance and the mouse and the horse do their bit to help their fellow feline pets. Legendary entertainer Maurice Chevalier was whisked back from retirement to sing the title song (which includes a verse in French) and Scatman's band indulge in a breezy number 'Ev'rybody Wants To Be A Cat'.
I think Disney studio lived its most critical moments in the 1970s. Maybe in the 1980s the live movies made some success, however the cartoon waited till the start of the 1990s to rise again in a new golden age. So (The AristoCats - 1970) was just the beginning of a decline, or it was what this great studio used to present in that era between 2 great phases.As a cartoon, it got few exceptional moments. I loved when the kidnapper's car was escaping through Paris's streets at night; that was the top of this movie's artistic personality. Some, and not all, of the songs were memorable such as 'Everybody Wants to Be a Cat'; at the 2000s Disney included it as one of its best songs at one album that had 'When You Wish upon Star', or 'Can You Feel the Love Tonight'. (Phil Harris) owned the vocal performance as (O'Malley); it's the best coarse voice you can ever hear. (Maurice Chevalier), who came from his retirement, added a real value to it, despite being here just for singing the title song at the opening credits.But on the other hand, it didn't perfectly utilize the bunch of nice characters that it had, nor bring some good comic situations out of them as guest stars in a road movie. The romantic feel wasn't solid, and the action was poor. The scene in which the evil butler was trying to bring back his things from the 2 sleepy dogs was one of the most boring moments, and it could summarize the routine and the slack personality of this movie. And I couldn't understand why it took place in Paris in the first place; it's not based on some original story to be obligated by its events!Overall, it's not that cinematic. It lacks so many thrilling and touching moments, and it's not engaging enough as a whole. I believe that comes originally from how (The AristoCats) was intended as a two-part, live-action installment of the TV series (Disneyland - 1954). Not to mention that the case is similar to (Lady and the Tramp - 1955) too. So the TV feel, and the loser comparison in the back of your head, make the efficiency weak.All the time, you would feel that it was produced by another studio. The certain touch of glamour or proficiency was surely taken. It's an evening for kids, ordinary in a bad sense, and not like what this very studio used to dazzle us decades before.As the last animated feature to be approved by Walt Disney, and the studio's first animated feature to be completed after his death; it's not the end of an era, it's the start of lower one.
A group of cats look to find their way home after being kidnapped by a greedy butler.The Aristocats is regarded as one of Walt Disney's finest 2D animations with its charming script and cool characters, but it doesn't quite have the magic that created Snow White or the Jungle Book.The slow opening will have younger viewers raising their eyebrows but once the cats become established into the story does the fun and entertainment begin.The young cats create the most enjoyment with a charming young hearted rivalry, the special kind of bonding any brother or sister of any age can associate with.Not the funniest Disney picture out there but there are some great comic moments, especially involving the Cats and the Dogs. The representation of the gangster cats is very impressive and equally amusing.The story, after the boring beginning, is consistently entertaining and exactly what a family film should be. There are hardly any lapses and no dull moments. The journey to find home is interesting and you get a sense of exploring, not to mention two very strange British swans.With Disney, you always get a strong meaningful message. With the Jungle Book it is where you belong, with Beauty and the Beast you explore the importance of inner beauty. However with this 1970 picture there seems to be something missing. The film has the importance and relevance of home but is not cemented enough; it seems very far fetched and irrelevant.My sister and I found it very strange watching this as some of the central characters were voiced by the Jungle Book cast.Despite the bad beginning and the confusion of its preaching message, this is a consistently fun family film with a good music score and some cool crazy characters that viewers of any age can relate to.
When 'Madame' decides to let her cats inherit her it spells trouble. The snobbish Butler Edgar who is next in line to inherit decides to get rid of the cats. Thereby the story can begin and the cats can go on an adventure that would otherwise have been impossible. An adventure that lets them meet the charming, but not altogether trustworthy cat O'Malley. He helps them through many dangerous and funny situations until the inevitable happy end.The force of this movie is in its humor and music. Edgar is simply hilarious as the insulted butler who is out to settle the score and of course he himself takes some serious beatings. One of the best scene contains him being chased by the two dogs Lafayette and Napoleon. The score is great and like in 'the Jungle Book' you have scenes that is almost 'musical' in the sense that the story doesn't progress and the focus is to let the protagonists express themselves via dance. And of course we like, that the score is quite Jazzy.And of course it's not only me but also my children who love this one.Regards SimonPs. When you read reviews that gives max score check to see if the user has made more than one review. If not consider the possibility of a lobbyist. If you agree consider putting this post scriptum at the bottom at your own reviews.
Duchess and her three kittens are enjoying the high life with their devoted human mistress until the wicked butler Edgar, with his eyes on a big inheritance, decides to dope them and get them out of the picture. How can these fragile creatures cope in the unfamiliar countryside and the meaner streets of Paris? Only by meeting the irrepressible alley cat O'Malley, a rough diamond with romance in his heart. After they get a taste of the wide dangerous world, he guides them home, and Edgar gets his just desserts at the wrong end of a horse. As always, it's really the voices rather than the animation that are the heart of the Disney magic: Phil Harris is brilliant as O'Malley, Eva Gabor as Duchess is... well... Eva Gabor; but perhaps the most memorable turns are by Pat Buttram and George Lindsay, who turn the old hounds Napoleon and Lafayette into a couple of bumbling Southern-fried rednecks. Their scenes with Edgar, and the musical numbers with Scat Cat and his cool-dude band, are classic. Most striking about seeing The Aristocats now is how deeply Disney's style of animation has changed since this was at the cutting edge in 1970. Perhaps the nostalgic, dated feel are just a result of being plonked down in Belle Epoque Paris, but the illustrations are fussier (a pity) and the animation and overall pace much less frenetic (sometimes a relief) than in more recent efforts such as Aladdin.
After seeing The Aristocats: Special Edition in a two pack with The Fox in the Hound, I decided to buy it since both of these films were childhood favourites.The Aristocats is a classic, definitely. It might not be a five-star classic, but it is a fun film and makes a good evening's entertainment. It is somewhat a light refreshment from the darker, more serious Disney classics. The Aristocats tries to be a light-hearted musical comedy, and I think it just about succeeds.The storyline doesn't really make much sense and I don't think the plot is particularly strong, but it is certainly not weak. The animation and backgrounds are a bit scratchy in places, typical of Disney's 70s films, but it does have a rustic, old fashioned charm about it.The Aristocats strongest points are the characters, the music and the humour. The music is very memorable - try getting 'Everybody Wants To Be A Cat' out your head in a hurry! The songs are written by the Sherman Brothers, who also did the music for The Jungle Book. There was one song called 'She Never Felt Alone' that was going to be in the film, but sadly didn't make it into the final feature. It is a shame, because I think it would have fit in very well.The characters are unforgettable. Thomas O'Malley is voiced by Phil Harris, and is basically Baloo in a feline form. Eva Gabor gives Duchess this warm and maternal feel and the kitten's voices actually sound like children, and not an actor imitating the voice of a child. The secondary characters are here by the dozen and yet you still end up understanding their personalities. Edgar, the 'villainous' butler plays a similar role to Cruella De Vil, but he's more comical than scary, often ending up in funny situations. Even though he's the bad guy, he's still lovable all the same.The two British geese - Abigail and Amelia really had me cracking up, along with their crazy (and drunk) uncle. I also like the dogs, who tend to argue over who is 'the leader.' I could go on, but I won't spoil it. But I can tell you, The Aristocats is funny and will entertain everyone without having to resort to rudimentary toilet humour.The bottom line - The Aristocats might not be Disney's crowning achievement, or even their strongest film from the 70s (that award is a tie between The Rescuers and The Many Adventures of Whinnie the Pooh). But it is an enjoyable romp and is sure to entertain. If you are looking for a dazzling work of art, you might be better off watching Bambi. But if you want a fun night in, The Aristocats is the way to go. It is a charming and lovable film and it's impossible to dislike. Enjoy! (And besides, it's good to have a film where cats aren't seen as the villains).
There are a select few cartoon films where animals or something 'not human' is portraying human beings and I think that this film is one of them. Apart from a few points of the plot and the characters - this film could be changed with all people rather than mainly animals. Although - it's good someone did not - I feel the cats are jolly good in this film portraying humans! :-)This film also focuses on quite a lot of adult issues - which is rather odd for a Disney film. It mentions alcohol*, shows a dog teaching another dog how to attack 'tresspassing' humans and it shows a male cat called (Abraham Delacy Gieuseppe Casi Thomas) O' Malley, fancying a female cat, in a surprisingly human and adult way.As a cartoon film - or just a film in general, I feel this is pretty good quality - the storyline and characters are especially good. The film (in general) is set in France and you meet a family of cats - the mother Duchess and her kittens Marie, Toulouse and Berlioz. You also meet the kind (rich) old woman who adores the cats, the butler Edgar and an old man (who has CLEARLY lost his marbles) called George. The kind old woman discusses her will with George and Edgar overhears that what he receives from the will he will have after the cats have it. He is INCREDIBLY cross with this - and has an evil scheme in mind...A very cute film for every age - enjoy 'Aristocats'!*Not including 'Basil the Great Mouse Detective' and a few others maybe which I cannot think of at the moment.
This movie is disappointing on so many levels. Much like the more recent Ratatouille, it seems to be a children's film hijacked and saddled with a slew of themes and environments better suited for octogenarians. Even in 1970, I doubt there were many 5 year olds who ached for jazz-loving bohemian cats in belle epoch Paris. It is immediately apparent that the Disney folks (on their own for the first time since Walt croaked) were lost - it takes almost 8 or 9 minutes for ANYTHING even remotely interesting to a child to occur. A five year old will be ready to leave before the disc has been spinning more than a few minutes. And it never goes anywhere. It never really tugs your heartstrings and instead wallows in this strange slapstick humor that undermines the drama. Perhaps most disappointing is the quality of the animation. It sports a rough look - almost like they just took practice sheets and frantically turned them into cels. You can practically see the pencil lines appearing. Animation-wise, it's God-awful.
Following the release of 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937),' Walt Disney Productions has continued to produce quality animated feature-length children's film, many of which I still haven't had the pleasure of seeing. 'The AristoCats (1970),' directed by Wolfgang Reitherman, was the twentieth film in Disney's official canon, and is a romantic musical comedy revolving around a family of aristocratic cats living in Paris, France in 1910. In the mansion of the elderly Madame Adelaide Bonfamille (voiced by Hermione Baddeley), her loving feline pets  including Duchess (Eva Gabor) and her three young kittens  are the most important residents. When the bumbling butler, Edgar (Roddy Maude-Roxby), learns that the cats stand to inherit the old lady's entire fortune, he sets about disposing of the pets, dumping them in the countryside far from the big city. Lost and confused, Duchess and her children strike up an acquaintance with a sweet-talking alley cat, Thomas O'Malley (Phil Harris), who agrees to show them the way home.Animation-wise, 'The AristoCats' isn't anything particularly notable, with much earlier Disney films such as 'Snow White' and 'Fantasia (1940),' demonstrating a similar, or even superior, visual style. However, the story is interesting and exciting  particularly for younger audiences, I'll wager  and the musical numbers {which I wish were more numerous} are terrific. For the sake of trivia, I'll name my two favourite songs as 'Thomas O'Malley Cat' and 'Ev'rybody Wants to Be a Cat,' the latter of which is a psychedelic throwback to the late 60s, with a swinging jazz band and delirious flashing colours, led by a trendy feline called the Scat Cat (Scatman Crothers). The family's journey back to Paris is eventful and adventurous, and we meet such friendly characters as Amelia and Abigail Gabble {two talkative geese}, Uncle Waldo {the pair's drunken relative}, Georges Hautecourt {Madam Bonfamille's ancient but sprightly lawyer} and Napoleon and Lafayette {two dim-witted hound dogs with a hunger for the butler's rump}.
As the mom of a 3 year old and a 2 year old, I adore AristoCats. It is a movie that contains no double-entendres, no almost-swear words like heck or darn, no parents who are functional idiots, and no crotch-smashing or flatulence jokes that are so prevalent in even the 'best' kids movies these days. The story line is sweet and interesting. The music is great. The love story is quite romantic. The kittens are adorable, and the various other characters are unique and attention-capturing. The action is simple and not overwhelming or confusing. The characters are quite well-cast as well. I love listening to Eva Gabor's velvety voice, and there are so many others that are familiar from childhood and also fit the characters so well. It's really a movie about love, tolerance, good manners, and faithfulness. Who doesn't want their kids exposed to these values? It is a movie that I don't mind watching over and over, unlike Happy Feet where I couldn't watch the whole thing even once because it was so irritating. I wish production companies would move toward making movies more like this one.
A French feline and her three kittens are cat-napped by the scheming butler of a wealthy Parisian Madame; enter a 'hep cat' from the wrong side of the tracks. 1962's independently-produced 'Gay Purr-ee' was groovier, and Disney's own 'Lady and the Tramp' and '101 Dalmatians' covered this ground (with dogs) with much more spirit--not to mention better songs--so 'The Aristocats' was already second-best on three counts: story, presentation and music. The movie is at odds with itself over how far to go with its comedy: at one point, the butler on his motorcycle drives into the base of a windmill and moves the structure a few feet before crashing through the other side. It's Saturday morning TV slapstick, lumpy with comic relief that might only tickle indiscriminating children. ** from ****
This movie is great I really enjoyed it.This movie is about a cat mom named Dutchess and her 3 kittens.T Dutchess and the kittens love music.They have to practice the piano everyday.But the butler named Edgar tries to kidnap Dutchess and her kittens he tries to make them sleep. But he fails. Them Dutchess meets a cat named Thomas O Maily. Thomas falls in love with Dutchess. The cats break into song. With the song everybody wants to be a cat. Thomas gets to love music like the other cats. Thomas and Dutchess really like each other.I loved this movie and i like the cats to!
The 20th animated Disney classic is often criticized by many people as 'mediocre' or poor in quality, but it is a good movie.Despite being extremely underrated, it is one of the funniest Disney classics. It is full of hilarious (some of them, hysterical) moments.Edgar, the greedy butler, is the villain but a perfect comic relief. He's one of my favorite Disney villains because he is so funny.Every scene with Edgar and the two stupid hound dogs Napoleon and Lafayette chasing him are among the most hilarious you'll ever see, especially the one when Edgar drives his motorcycle into the river and around the bridge, with the dogs chasing him. That is hysterical!But the classic humor doesn't just come from Edgar or the hound dogs. Other characters have their moments as well.About the quality subject, it isn't perfect, but remains on a high level. Even after Walt Disney's death those artists knew how to keep faithful to Walt's spirit and 'The Aristocats' is one of those examples. They no longer make them like this!As usual, legendary Disney actors voice the characters. In this case, we have Phil Harris, Sterling Holloway, Paul Winchell, Eva Gabor and Pat Buttram.The characters are generally cool: Thomas O'Malley, Duchess and her 3 kittens, the mouse Roquefort, the alley cats, the English geese, the hound dogs and the horse. The human characters are included as well: the eccentric and kind retired Opera singer Madame Adelaide Bonfamille, the comic Madame's old lawyer Georges Hautecourt and Edgar himself!About the soundtrack, it has some nice and catchy songs such as Thomas O'Malley's theme (but I can't remember its name), 'Everybody Wants to be a Cat' and 'The Aristocats' (sung by Maurice Chevalier), for example.This movie takes place in Paris (France), in the year of 1910. A classic, often underestimated and forgotten, but worthy.
This is NOT the masterpiece that is Snow White, Cinderella, or Bambi, but it IS a very sweet, enjoyable, romantic, well-done Disney animated feature.There are, of course, lessons included herein for the kiddies, and some very appropriate kiddie-cheek, but there is plenty herein for the adults, as well.While this is somewhat of a regurgitation of the Classic Disney RomCom Adventure, it still holds some elements, which solely belong to the AristoCats. O'Malley is the 'tramp' and Dutchess is the 'lady,' but Dutchess has several kittens and they are all trying to get home.Phil Harris is our tomcat O'Malley. You may recognize his voice, as he also furnished the voice of Baloo the Bear in the Jungle Book, and Little John in Disney's Robin Hood. Eva Gabor lends her silky sweet voice to Dutchess.Directed by Wolfgang Reitherman, who directed, or worked on, every Disney animated film worth mentioning until his death in 1985.This is among my very favorite of the Disney animated feature films, and belongs in any Disney collection. The 2-Disk Special Edition Is Due Out This Summer (2007).This rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend :.
The Aristocats is absolutely a true Disney Classic! Don't let the sweet, playful cats fool you into thinking the movie's for the little ones. Everyone will enjoy it. One of the movie's best qualities is the characters. Their drawn beautifully and have memorable personalities, brilliantly portrayed by their actors. Phil Harris' voice is classic as the smooth-talking, alley-cat Thomas O'Malley. Eva Gabor's sweet, soft-spoken, accented voice is a perfect fit for the refined Dutchess. The kittens, while voiced by less famous people, definitely don't fall short; their voices to enhance their characters, from prissy Marie, too tough-guy Toulose, to musical Berlioz. Napoleon and Laffayette are hysterical.This movie is a musical jam-packed with catchy songs. 'Thomas O'Malley' and the instant classic ' Everybody Wants to Be a Cat' are timeless songs with swinging lyrics and rhythm. The animation is remarkable, ranging from beautiful French countryside, to eye-popping , jazzy dance scenes. The script is perfectly executed, balancing Dutchess' sweetness with Thomas' wit.The Aristocats is nothing short of a classic! Ten Stars!
Duchess is a pretty white cat who lives with her three kittens in her wealthy owner's mansion in Paris. When the evil butler hears that the rich old lady is leaving everything in her will to the cats first, the butler is angered, because he wants to get everything first. So he puts them to sleep and abandons them off the side of the road. When the cats wake up, they start on a long trek home. A street wise cat named Thomas O'Malley meets up with them and offers to help them. When Edgar sees them arriving home, he is furious, and starts to mail them to Timbucktu. But Thomas' friends arrive to help save the day. The wealthy lady decides to leave her home for every alley cat in Paris.This is a charming film. The songs, including 'Everybody Wants to be a Cat', are lively and upbeat. The voice cast is excellent, with Eva Gabor(who would later play Miss Bianca in Disney's THE RESCUERS films) as Duchess, Phil Harris(Baloo in THE JUNGLE BOOK, Little John in ROBIN HOOD) as Thomas, giving interesting personalities to their characters. Supposedly Walt Disney, before he died in 1966, gave the go-ahead to this film. Recommended for Disney fans or cat lovers everywhere! 10/10.
The ''The AristoCats'' was one of the first Disney's movies that I watched as a child. Five days ago, I had the opportunity of watching this movie again in a friend's house, and I could pay more attention about the story and the similarities that this movie has with ''The Lady and the Tramp'' and also ''101 dalmatians''. The ''Lady and the Tramp'' similarity is pretty obvious: The fact that Duchess is a high society cat, identical as ''Lady'' and O'Malley is from the streets like Tramp, as well as the last scene where all the cats are together as a family and Adelaide takes a picture of them together. From the ''101 dalmatians'', The delivery van in ''The Aristocats'' is similar to the moving van in ''101 Dalmatians'', as well as the pets being stolen for the pet napper's benefit and Napoleon, a dog that seems very similar to another dog from ''101 Dalmatians''.The story is a little bit silly, in the sense of Adelaide leaving all her money to her cats a little bit ridiculous, but since it is a cartoon made for kids, we should not judge it so much. And a very cool thing: everything is hand-drawn!The plot: In 1910 France,a retired opera singer Adelaide Bonfamille, is a very rich woman who lives in a mansion with her cats( Duchess and her three kittens Marie, Berlioz and Toulouse) and her butler called Edgar. One day, when Adelaide wants to settle her will with her lawyer, she decides to leave all her money to her cats, since she doesn't have family.The problem is that Edgar hears that,and wanting the fortune for himself, he decides to get a rid of the cats, leaving them away from their home. Edgar's plan is not totally successful, since he is attacked by dogs, but he lets Duchess and the kittens in the middle of nowhere. When Duchess meets a friendly stray cat named Thomas O'Malley,a romance between them begins, and also a journey, since Thomas will help Duchess and her kittens at any cost to go back to their home.
Plot in a nutshell - Duchess (voice of Eva Gabor) is the well polished single mother cat of three little kittens. When their owner, the wealthy elderly woman known as Madame Adelaide, realizes that her time is running out she decides to write up her will, leaving everything she has to her cats, which will then go to her butler Edgar when the cats pass on. Edgar overhears this and is deeply offended by the idea that the cats would get everything before him, and plots to destroy Duchess and her kittens; he drops sleeping pills in their supper one night and then leaves them stranded in the French countryside. Out of their element, Duchess and her kittens befriend a street smart stray cat known as Thomas O'Malley (voice of Phil Harris who did the voice of the big bear Balloo in the Jungle Book); after making a pass at Duchess, unaware that she is a single mother, O'Malley decides to escort them back home, with Duchess genuinely falling for O'Malley as the usual codependent surrogate family bond develops; chaos and mayhem ensues, culminating in a violent clash between O'Malley, his brother cats from the streets and Edgar. Also features appearances by British geese, American southern hound dogs (what they were doing in France is anyone's guess), a mouse who sounds a lot like the rabbit from 'Alice In Wonderland' (he was in fact voiced by the same guy who voiced Winnie the Pooh) and a horse. Sometimes slow paced but still enjoyable Disney venture. Features the memorable 'Everybody Wants To Be A Cat' musical piece sung by the late Scatman Crothers (better known to 1980s fans as the voice of Jazz on Transformers). Of course, if this was being made now, it would probably be a dark social commentary on class division represented by the divide between well bred & well fed Duchess and the street born O'Malley.
The death of Walt Disney was the end of an era in the history of the animation medium. With the success of 'The Jungle Book' in the fall of 1967, Disney was confident to keep going with animation. Animation was on its way out by the late 1960s, as Disney was regarded as 'kid's stuff', and adults didn't want to attend an animated feature because they considered it an equivalent of a childish Saturday morning cartoon.'The Aristocats', the first post-Walt animated feature, shows that Disney decided to make animated films and make money, regardless of the quality. This element also plagued other Disney animated films of the era (with the exception of 'The Rescuers'). It wouldn't turn around until animation made its comeback in the mid-to-late 1980s.'The Aristocats''s plot takes from 'Lady and the Tramp' and 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' and tries to wade through its runtime. Fortunately, it's entertaining and delightful to watch, but it's no masterpiece.The butler of an aging woman named Madame Bonfamille worries that he will die before he inherits her fortune. In her will, it is stated that he shall look after her cats (Duchess and her kittens, Berlioz, Toulouse and Marie) until they die, and then he'll inherit the fortune. So he decides to drug the cats and dump them in the countryside.Duchess and kittens meet Thomas O'Malley (a happy-go-lucky alley cat played by Phil Harris), and from there, they go on an adventure back to Madame's mansion. Cue the 'Lady and the Tramp'/'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' similarities.The best scenes are when the gang meets Scat Cat (Scatman Crothers) and his gang of musical alley cats. The 'Everybody Wants To Be A Cat' is the best sequence in the film, and it becomes a colorful jazzy explosion. Afterwards, it's a rushed race to the finish.'The Aristocats' is fun to watch, but it's no masterpiece. The story is very weak, and the animation is solid but not anything special. It's a film that lack ambition or confidence, but it's sure to entertain the younger set. For adults and animation historians, it's a weak film.An 8.2 out of 10.
I'm joking again. I actually would encourage people to dislike this film. I find it average at best. As a Disney picture, it's a shameless rip-off of '101 Dalmations' - only instead of dogs, it's with cats. 'AristoCATS' -- ha, ha! How clever I wonder how long it took them to come up with that one.Basically the Disney formula is in place - animals on the run from a deranged weirdo who has a strange obsession with animals and wants them dead. In this case it's the butler of a rich woman who has left her estate and belongings to the possession of her cat upon death. The butler decides to get rid of the cat and her new kittens and then have himself be put in the will. It's actually rather dark because he kidnaps the cats and plans for them to die in the wild, but they meet up with a street cat who teaches them the ways of the 'real world.' If you think this plot is incredibly stupid and far-fetched then you are probably right. But as a children's film you can hardly blame it for being utterly nonsensical and not bearing any sense of reality.If you are a Disney enthusiast you will find something to enjoy here. Some of the musical performances are fun. But it's not a remarkable film or one that is particularly memorable from Disney's canon.
Disney and Friends continue their hard work in animation with the cat version of '101 Dalmatians,' the 1970 classic film 'The Aristocats.' It's a movie about cool cats!!!!! Now, although I am giving this a ten, I am more inclined towards dogs rather than cats, and I like dog movies the most, but this movie's good, too; it's old Disney for everyone!!!!!This played once on the just-destroyed Disney Channel in late 2002. While an old thing was being shown, the damage had been done already (LOL), but I managed to still enjoy the movie anyway. Sure, it was nice, but I wouldn't say that it is the Disney movie on the top of my list. 'The Aristocats' has big musical numbers; one being 'Everybody!!!!! Everybody!!!!!' with the cats changing colors!!!!! That'll make you want to get up and dance!!!!!10/10
Oh my gosh!! I love this movie sooooooooooooooooooooo much!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! It is so incredible......I loved it as a wee babe and still love it as an adult. It is my favorite Disney movie of allllllllllllllllllllllllllllll time! You should watch it, watch it and love it. My friends and I watch it a ton.....It is soooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo good. I recommend it to anyone who is a child or a child at heart. My favorite part is the song and dance number with all of the strays and Thomas O'Malley. The writers/producers/director completely nailed this one.....yeah, nailed it to the wall.xoxo~Wolly~xoxo
Set in Paris in the year 1910, a retired old rich opera singer decides to give her fortune away to her beautiful cat Duchess ( voiced by Eva Gabor) and her kittens, but the jealous butler Edgar comes up with a plan as he kidnaps the cats and leaves them in the countryside. Luckily for them with the help of a streetwise and independent tomcat named Thomas O'Malley ( voiced by Phil Harris) helps them get home especially meeting some of his good friends like the swinging' Scat Cat ( voiced by Scatman Crothers) and try to foil Edgar's plans.Very entertaining and edgy post-Walt Disney's death animated movie with a couple of nice jazzy tunes like the memorable 'Everybody wants to be a cat', good voice acting and some terrific animation for it's time even in these times of computer animation. Not one of the greatest Disney animated movies but a cult Disney animated fave and one of the few gems of it's day that works well, highly recommended.
I have seen this movie only once, several years ago. But I remember liking it a lot.**Spoilers ahead** An old famous opera singer is retired and she decides to give all the money she has to her cats. Her butler hears this and plots to get rid of the cats so he can have the fortune. He puts knockout drops in their milk. When they wake up, they find themselves miles away. They must journey back to their house before it is too late. With the help of an independent-minded tomcat and other animal accomplices, while evading the butler and foiling his plan.Could have been better, but it also could have been a lot worse.My Score: 7/10.
The Aristocats is a cute Disney animation with irresistible cartoon kittens, but this film suffers from a poor storyline. Not even the cute kittens can save this film from the poor storyline. The characters are also not as memorable (and the plot not as satisfying) as other Disney films. Most of my impression of this film is from the eyes of an adult. (I wanted to but never had the opportunity to see this film when I was younger, although I probably *would have* loved it because it featured cats - instead of dogs.) Children may like it, but if you're expecting a very good storyline and terrific film, you will be disappointed. Still...those cartoon kittens *are* cute.
The Aristocats is at once arguably one of the last great Disney animated features. It too can be seen as a harbinger of the likes of Fritz The Cat. However aside from O'Malley's swooning for a hit of that 'sweet stuff,' and his off screen roll in the hay with Duchess punctuated with 'what a finale!' this film lags behind its predecessors both narratively and artistically. There is some very nice background art. The animation style is often just above a pencil test and while it aesthetically hearkens to 101 Dalmations, there's no real over-stylized flamboyance or flair that Dalmations toyed with so beautifully. While the two hounds are culturally out of place (hobo southerners in the middle of the French countryside?) they do demonstrate some of the best animation in the film, with nice attention to volumes and follow through of movement. There is otherwise some rather untidy treatment of ink and paint here, and not just that which could be chalked up to a matter of style but rather, well just sloppy. A couple walk cycles have the characters so against-the-animation-rules gliding along, completely ignoring the rhythm of their gate. The musical numbers seem more of an excuse to have fun on screen than serving to carry the narrative along in any meaningful or for that matter, useful way.
I remember seeing this Walt Disney Pictures film as a kid, and I was looking forward to seeing it again to see what I'd think, from director Wolfgang Reitherman (One Hundred and One Dalmatians, The Jungle Book). Basically, set in 1910 Paris, pampered house-cat Duchess (The Rescuers' Eva Gabor) and her three kittens, Marie (Liz English), Berlioz (Dean Clark) and Toulouse (Gary Dubin) are loved by their owner Madame Adelaide Bonfamille (Hermione Baddeley). However, when greedy butler Edgar Balthazar (Roddy Maude-Roxby) hears that they will inherit her fortune when she is gone, he kidnaps the cats and leaves them stranded in the countryside. They need to find their way, and they have street-wise, smooth-talking alley cat Thomas O'Malley (The Jungle Book's Phil Harris) to help them. While Thomas, Duchess and the kittens hang out with the likes of Scat Cat (The Shining's Scatman Crothers) and his gang, Edgar is trying to retrace his steps and make sure no-one finds incriminating evidence. When Edgar eventually catches the cats returning home, it is up to Roquefort the mouse (Winnie the Pooh's Sterling Holloway) to get O'Malley and his gang to help. In the end, Egdar gets himself trapped inside a trunk heading to Timbuktu, Africa, and O'Malley gets to stay with Duchess and the kittens. Also starring Monica Evans as Abigail Gabble and Carole Shelley as Amelia Gabble. The animation is reasonable, but it Harris that makes this a real treat, he is just as he was being Baloo, and his co-star Gabor is a good voice too. It also that memorable jazzy song by Harris and Crothers, 'Everybody Wants To Be a Cat' that makes it worth a viewing, it is a fun cartoon adventure. Very good!
This is one of my favorite films, ever. The story is just so fantastic and the characters are so good. Unlike the other Disney films of the age, this film never bores the audience. 101 Dalmations, Peter Pan, Robin Hood, they were all good, but lack what we have here. This is funny, creative, and always on target. This movie just has an extra something that you can't learn in books. However, this is not the best animated film ever made. That title belongs to the BRILLIANT Toy Story. But this is a respectable second, immediately followed by The Lady and the Tramp.Just see it and enjoy what one of the cinema's greatest achievements. And by the by, I'm not a little kid, this is for the older audiences wanting to recapture their childhood. An absolute must!
I have to say, out of Disney's roster, Aristocats is not the best they've ever done. However, it certainly isn't the worst. The story is shallow at best, and only two tiny components stand to redeem the movie.The first is the music. I'd say the musical numbers draw more entertainment than the bulk of the film, as I can still enjoy them, even though I am beyond a juvenile age where anything colorful and loud can occupy me.The second is the pair of farmdogs. Those two are more colorful, more interesting characters than any of the cats in the movie. They give the movie an occasional comedic break it needs from time to time.Overall, I'd recommend this movie if you're trying to keep a six-year-old's attention on one thing for an hour. But as far as quality entertainment, I would recommend an older Disney film like Pinnochio, or Snow White.
AristoCats is such a terrific Disney classic that I just loved so much as a kid. Still to this day I can't resist watching it, it's just such a wonderful and charming film with great animation and lovely songs. I really miss the animation films like AristoCats, they had perfect voices not to mention the hand drawn animation that makes it perfect for the family. AristoCats is also very witty and clever, the story was just so wonderful. This film is just beyond irresistible, I think the most memorable moment for me was the cats playing the piano learning the appecio's, lol, it was just so cute with the piano playing and painting.Douchess and her kittens are very pampered in their huge mansion, mainly because their lady is very rich and treats them like they were her children. But when the lady feels it's time to make her will, she leaves everything to the cats and not to her butler. The butler gets angry and takes the kittens on the road and abondons them in the middle of no where. Douchess and the kittens wake up and with the help of a smooth street cat by the name of Thomas O'Malley, they head back home to their lady, but learn the coolness of being a skat cat.The AristoCats is just a perfect Disney movie that I feel is a bit over looked. I would always highly recommend this movie for kids or families, it could be enjoyed by anyone. The songs and story is just memorable. I will always join in for the movies best song 'Everybody wants to be a cat', such a great tune. I also love those dogs that guarded the farm where the cats were abandoned, they were just so cute. This is a terrific film, please watch it, you won't be disappointed.9/10
*May Contain Spoilers*The first time I saw this movie was when it was re-released on video when I was around 8 years old.  Now I am 17 and still watch it whenever I get a chance to. 'The Aristocats' was a cute heart warming film that I immediately fell in love with.  I loved the songs on it especially the one the kittens sing by the piano.  In fact I even sang it in a talent show with my sister and friend since I loved it that much.  All three kittens are so cute and their mother is one of the prettiest cartoon cats I ever saw.  The Ally cat had a great voice!My favorite part of the movie is when the kittens are playing the piano. That part is adorable.  I also enjoy their journey home.  It's incredible. This is one of the best Disney films I ever saw and one of my favorites. Everyone should see it.  I give this film 10/10 stars.
The Aristocats is one of my favorite animated movies, but the comparisons between this movie and past Disney classics are reasonable. The dog napping plot of One Hundred and One Dalmatians is adapted to fit the catnapping plot of The Aristocats. O'Malley and Duchess are reconstructions of Lady and the Tramp at heart. But, as long as the end result is just as enjoyable as the past movies, why complain? No matter how the success was achieved, as long as it was achieved. The plot is simple. Madame Adelaide Bonfamille is an old millionaires spinster in Paris, 1910. The only other people in her lonely life are her cat, Duchess, and her kittens, Toulouse, Marie and Berlioz, as well as the faithful butler, Edgar. When Madame's lawyer, Georges, comes over to make Madame's will, Edgar overhears her plans. She wants to leave all her belongings to her cats, and at the end of their lifespan, the vast sums of money will go to Edgar. Quite unreasonably, Edgar is infuriated, and drugs and catnaps the kittens and dumps them in the French countryside, miles from home. There they find Thomas O'Malley, an alley cat who helps them back home, mainly because of Duchess.The characterization of O'Malley certainly doesn't seem to have been a problem. Voiced by Phil Harris (Baloo from The Jungle Book), he also acts like the lovable bear and even looks just like you would imagine Baloo to look like, were he transmogrified into a cat. His bunch of jazz cats, led by Scat Cat, are some of the more effective Disney cameo-players. My favorite was the long-haired, blonde English Cat (besides Scat Cat, the rest have no names but clearly distinct nationalities). Roquefort the house-mouse and Frou-Frou the horse have brief roles, but shine in these glimpses. Edgar isn't really the real Disney villain in that he is not evil...he is simply impatient. He is not cruel from the start--his only sin is impatience. If he hadn't known about the will, he would've taken care of the cats as if nothing had happened. One sees his point in a way--what would those cats DO with the money? Madame could have given her estate to Edgar, and the butler would never have abandoned the cats had they not been privileged more than himself. So I like Edgar, in some ways.The story is a mix of other Disney classics. Besides Fantasia--which had NO plot--this was Disney's first shot at writing an original story for an animated feature, and even so they had to take shortcuts. Here are the main plot elements repeated: 1) Villain-pet naps-animals-for-personal-gain from One Hundred and One Dalmatians. 2) Pampered-pet-learns-of-life-on-streets-through-streetwise-friend from Lady and the Tramp. It also borrows a little bit from Chuck Jones and Abe Levitow's Gay Purr-ee (1962). The plot is berated for being too shallow, but I don't see how it can be with so many elements of faultless classics. Again, as in the first paragraph: If the audience enjoys a story, it doesn't matter how the story developed.The animation, so often blasted for being lazy and flawed, can never be seen the same way by everyone. It's solely a matter of opinion. The animation isn't bad, like television cartoons: it's a different style, radically different from, say, Sleeping Beauty. If that great fairy tale were portrayed by such animation, it would be the greatest failure in history; the same way, the sketchy, loose, carefree style of The Aristocats is perfect to tell that kind of story with those characters. Sleeping Beauty needed to be immaculate, as near to photography as could be; The Aristocats is the most cartoony of Disney animated features.The Aristocats will always have an advantage over many films in my book. It was one of the few movies my dad saw in theater, so I was exposed to it more than several other movies. Besides that, it has always been one of Disney's more enjoyable features, more fun than most. It doesn't aim for the realism and drama of Bambi. It's just wholesome entertainment.9/10
A jazzy, lively Disney offering, The Aristocats is one of the better animated movies from the '70s (a decade during which Disney cartoons as a rule seemed to take a dip in quality). It may have a disappointingly shallow plot, but in other departments this is a delightful movie. The animation is superb, the songs are catchy, and the voice-overs are just right.A wealthy Parisian lady meets her attorney to make her will. She instructs him that she wishes to leave her entire fortune to her beloved pet cats: Duchess, Marie, Berlioz and Toulouse. Unfortunately, the lady's scheming butler Edgar overhears her making the will. He kidnaps the cats and abandons them miles from Paris - hoping that, with them out of the way, he will inherit his ladyship's fortune. The cats are found by charismatic alleycat Thomas O'Malley (voiced by the incomparable Phil Harris), who leads them back to Paris and safety.This is a unique Disney movie, made so by its psychedelic sequences and a villain who is more a bumbling, misguided scoundrel than a traditional, 'boo-hiss' pantomime-style baddie. The other characters are quite memorable too (besides the cats there's a sleuthing mouse, a bunch of jazz-playing alleycats, two prim and proper English geese, a posh horse, and a jelly-legged 90 year old attorney). All in all, The Aristocats is a splendid way to pass a little time.
Engaging characters, nice animation, dynamite songs...all this and cute kitties, too. There's a lot of excellent humor, but no real menace, so don't worry about your little ones. The two farm dogs steal the show, even though they only appear in two scenes. The artwork has a linear quality that may put off some people, but I find it charming.
Since cats have nine lives, I'll give you nine reasons to see this movie:* The kittens Berlioz and Toulouse playing the piano together (so unbelievably cute!) * The car-chasing dogs Napoleon and Lafayette * Toulouse jumping like electrified every time he wants to be like a tough alley cat * Marie sighing romantically while alley cat O'Malley seduces her mom * Scat Cat and his jazz band, singing 'ev'rybody wants to be a cat' * Stupid but proper and nice English geese Amelia and Abigail who make the cats walk like geese * O'Malley obtaining the 'magic carpet' which puts the Cheshire cat to shame * Roquefort the brave mouse's journey to ask help from alley cats * Edgar the butler chase scenes and transition from a nice guy to an insane cat hater due to cat riddance plan gone bad
I really enjoyed this movie and I usually don't like animated pictures. But I thought the cats were appealing and the story line was charming. There is a good song called 'Everybody wants to be a cat,' that is a lot of fun. It has some comic moments and is an interesting adventure. I think it helps to be an avid cat lover to enjoy this film.
The primary characters and action are often upstaged by the quality of the background art. There is a not-so-subtle ethnic stereotype in the first appearance of Scat Cat's band; watch the drummer.
This is one of the best disney classics around.  I liked it so much I named one of my cats O'Malley!  The music and animation were great.  Also classic disney voices like Phil Harris along with great actors' voices Eva Gabor and Scatman Crothers make it even more enjoyable.  I have read some of the other reviews for this and I just don't get how anyone wouldn't like this.  It turned out some of disney's most well known classic songs (everybody wants to be a cat, the o'malley song) just to name a few.  It is much better than the overblown animation movies today, they actually had people draw the stills, not computer animation.  Again a great Disney CLASSIC!!!!!!!!
The legendary Walt Disney himself had accepted the production of the screenplay for this feeble 1970 animated film for release at his studio but he died before he could get a chance to supervise its production. Some of the animators and script editors were probably lost without him and the end result is a supremely weak film with boring characters, not so catchy jazz songs and a convoulted and implausible plot. This mix of several earlier Walt Disney Pictures animated films loses focus and doesn't stand in the same league as the studio's animated classics. Not the worst of Walt Disney Pictures or of animated films but nowhere even close to among the best or even decent either.
This is perhaps Disney's weakest effort. Nothing about this film is spectacular and the animation is the worst I've ever seen. This film was made back in the days when Disney was trying to short cut the animation process. And the result shows - The Aristocats is one of the poorest looking Disney films. The songs are unremarkable and the characters, well, they are cats so how worse can it get? Skip this one, you'll thank me later (I'm still trying to figure out myself what made me buy this film).
The first Disney animated film without the strong involvement of Disney himself, this film suffers from the fact that the story is not particularly original or interesting (this is, I believe, the only animated Disney film since the 1940's which is NOT based on an earlier book or other work, but is rather an original story). As others have noted, the plot is essentially a cross between the romance in Lady and the Tramp and the kidnapping/journey home story in 101 Dalmatians.But to overcome this flaw, the filmmakers have successfully used many of the better features of most of the Disney animated films of the previous 10-15 years: Phil Harris (from The Jungle Book) voicing one of the main characters, follows his duet with Louis Prima in the previous film with another here with Scatman Crothers. The quality visual look of this film is virtually carried over from 'Dalmatians' (with some nice nods to French Impressionism, it appears), and the villain here (the butler) is strongly reminiscent of the henchmen in that film as well. (This is probably one of Disney's least memorable villains.) The main story goes back and forth between the cats, and the butler's ongoing difficulties with two rural hound dogs (with great voice work by Pat Buttram and George 'Goober' Lindsey'). The various animal characters are similarly familiar to those who have seen 'Tramp' and 'Dalmatians.' The cats' owner, while bearing a striking visual resemblance to the wicked stepmother in Sleeping Beauty, bears none of that character's nasty traits and comes across as very warm and generous.The real strength of the film is the voice work; after first going toward the use of mostly familiar actors in The Jungle Book, the tactic is continued strongly here with Disney veterans Harris and Sterling Holloway from The Jungle Book, and Eva Gabor (who would do a very similar character in the later film The Rescuers), as well as Crothers and Nancy Kulp. All are excellent here, particularly Harris and Gabor in the leads. The character animation is as excellent as one would expect, showing a variety of emotions well.Smaller children may be upset by a few brief episodes (an escape from the path of a speeding train, a near-drowning by one of the children), but these are not presented in a particularly frightening or dark manner and are over very quickly. Overall, there's very little of the type of more frightening scenes found in many other Disney classics.One minor oddity is the way some visual aspects of 60's culture are depicted among the jazz-performing cats in supposedly 1910 Paris; one can't help but wonder why the story wasn't set solidly in the present, other than the great deal Paris had changed much of its appearance in the intervening time. It really would have made more sense that way.The songs, while being pleasant and sometimes very enjoyably performed, are not particularly memorable. Nonetheless, the general energy applied here, the excellent voice work and fine animation all contribute to overcome the relatively few and minor weaknesses. Far from the greatness of classic '10's such as Pinocchio or Aladdin, and not quite up to the '9's one might give to Sleeping Beauty or 101 Dalmatians, this is probably a rather marginal 8 of 10; perhaps a 7.
This is Disney's best movie.  It delivers to all audiences but it especially delivers to its target audience, children.  It has graceful innocence, fantastic voices, great humour, and tremendous music.  It is simple and it is simply wonderful.  Maurice Chevalier and Phil Harris...please, how amazing.
Complaints from previous commentators that 'the pencil marks show' in the animated art shows that they miss the point entirely. The visual style is deliberately similar to what was used in '101 Dalmatians' with the characters having a deliberately sketchy look--an art style used to great effect in this and several other Disney movies. Far from being 'weak animation', this is one of the very best works produced by the Disney artists. The color is superb, the humor is constant and the mere fact that the storyline bears a resemblance to the 'Dalmatians' plot does nothing to weaken the film. Upon release, it was an enormous success and has made even more money in subsequent theatrical revivals. Viewers who make comments about the art work, don't seem to realize that the 'sketchy' look was what the artists sought--it has nothing whatsoever to do with careless art work. All the voices are extremely well done--Eva Gabor as the Duchess and Phil Harris as Thomas O'Malley are perfect. The slapstick comedy involving the bumbling butler and the dogs is priceless! This is another great Disney film that children and adults can enjoy equally.
Try watching this not as a 'Disney cartoon' but on a slightly different level, and it's got some brilliant stuff. Very weak plotwise, and dragged out a little too long, but Duchess is by far the most sophisticated Disney mother animal I've ever seen. She's a swinging single, nobody's pushover, flirty and not quite maternal - not nearly as naive as Lady/Perdita. Some of the dialogue is quite funny, especially that of Edgar the Butler. The scene with Uncle Waldo (the drunk goose) was one of the funniest I've seen in a 'children's' cartoon.
No. I'm not kidding with this one. He was a guest reviewer for Entertainment Weekly and gave this movie positive marks. And who can blame him? This is a charming, upbeat, and rather funny Disney movie. Who doesn't love kittens? The music in Ev'rybody Wants To Be A Cat is jamming. It makes me want to snap my fingers or something. Only years later when Cats Don't Dance came out have I seen a movie that was that musically fun. What Aristocats lacks in animation and story, it makes up for in charm. Plus, everything moves at a relaxed pace, and even the villain isn't all that scary. It's perfect for the younger set while not being so sappy that adults can't like it. If Snoop was here, I'm sure he would say the same thing. Yeah. Dig those CRAZY cats, man.
> Kids will love this movie, just as they should. But, actually I thought it was cool! The characters and the music (ScatCat rocks) are fantastic to listen to, and the soundtrack is to be recommended.                              An old lady makes her beloved cats the owner of her money, in her will. Her clumsy butler, Edgar, finds this idea very stupid and annoying. And a problem, since he was certain that the money would go to him. So, wise as he is, he decides to get the cats out of the picture, so he can get all the cash. Of course. He grabs them in a rainy night and throw them away in a swamp way outside the city in France.                              Can't be missing in your Disney-collection.
> Kids will love this movie, just as they should. But, actually I thought it was cool! The characters and the music (ScatCat rocks) are fantastic to listen to, and the soundtrack is to be recommended.An old lady makes her beloved cats the owner of her money, in her will. Her clumsy butler, Edgar, finds this idea very stupid and annoying. And a problem, since he was certain that the money would go to him. So, wise as he is, he decides to get the cats out of the picture, so he can get all the cash. Of course. He grabs them in a rainy night and throw them away in a swamp way outside the city in France.Can't be missing in your Disney-collection.
There could be some debate as to which of the Walt Disney Company's weakest animated films, Robin Hood and Aristocats is the worst.  For me, I vote for this film, The Aristocats.  At least Robin Hood had a few moments of fine verbal wit, at least one good song and wonderful character designs that has inspired a generation of furry fans to their own creations.The Aristocats, however offers nothing like that.  Its plot is a feline mishmash rip-off of One Hundred and One Dalmations and Lady and The Tramp, both infinitely superior films to this effort. The main villian, Edgar the Butler, has none of the suave and menace of Cruella De Vil.  As with the film, he continually pulls his punches as to the harm he intends to his victims and comes off as a wimp and a one note character.  As John Grant notes in 'The Encyclopedia of Walt Disney Animated Characters', unlike Cruella De Vil, whose goals are relatively reasonable in a twisted fashion; Edgar is simply too stupid and short sighted to realize that he would be sure to have guaranteed job security as the cats' caretaker before he inevitably inherits the fortune himself.  Thus his whole rationale comes off as greedy stupidity to gain something that will be effectively his, albeitwith some responsiblities, sooner than the will would suggest.  If a good film often needs a good antagonist, then this films fails to deliver on that requirement.  Instead, he comes as if played by a respected actor stumbling about desperately trying to make the best of a bad role in a pathetic script.Also damaging the film is the clear artistic laziness.  Phil Harris' character is simply Baloo of the Jungle Book transplanted as a cat and numerous animation cycles (reused animation sequences) are prevalent in the film from 101 Dalmations to name at least one.  That is far below the artist standards Walt Disney demanded and the story is not strong enough to compensate for the cheapened animation as in 101 with its cycles.In short, while this film may be entertaining for kids;  adult fans of animation shouldn't waste their time.
Although you can see some of the pencil lines in this flick, it is still by far one of my favorite Disney flicks.  I especially like Toulose!!  I love that little guy!  I dig the music!  The love the cats have for Madam is wonderful.  I love the geese sisters!  If you haven't ever watched this...I recommend it!
Weak animation, but the soundtrack, the song 'Oo de lally' in the Portuguese version (from Brazil, of course) is completely perfect, engaging, perfect melody, melancholic, almost all are melancholic and sad, after all, the legend portrays poverty of a people before the tyranny of their ruler, and the children's characters, some cute, ended up succeeding Robin Hood in the animal kingdom, what a cuteness...
As a kid this was one of my favourite Disney films. It's an underrated Disney film it's one of the few Disney films you don't hear much of. Watching the film now the story is a little dry and it's a little too long. It's not Disney's best but it does deserve more credit.
Apparently from the 'Dark Age of Disney,' this movie is a little rough and vapid. But it's got furries, cartoon violence and anti-capitalist (monarchist?) themes, so that's chill
1973's 'Robin Hood' is easily one of the best Disney films. It's also one of those older Disney films that could really actually make audiences smile. The film takes on the legend of Robin Hood, a fox who steals from the rich to give to the poor. When Prince John, brother of King Richard, comes to the small town of Nottingham hijinks are in store for the Prince from bandits Robin Hodd & Little John (also the tax loving Sheriff of Nottingham greatly voiced by Paul Buttram). Also, that opening sequence by Roger Miller was fantastic. After, many problems ensue between Robin Hood & Prince John, Prince John eventually raises the taxes on all the poor people in the small town. Coming to the point where all the people of Nottingham (or at least most) are thrown into jail. Even when the sheriff comes to collect taxes from Friar Tuck, whom he gets into a short fight with, the Friar is thrown into jail as well! All in all 'Robin Hood' is a great classic film to enjoy with anyone.
Animation is really nice and the climax is really exciting, but everything before that might bore you to tears.
The funniest scene is the wedding sequence, where Robin Hood gets kissed on the cheek by his bride Maid Marian!!!!!!
Don't get me wrong. I totally get why this movie is iconic for many people, but in my opinion it's not a good movie. It would probably work better as a tv show. It doesn't tell the Robin Hood legend with justice. Robin Hood himself is a very blend character. The animation was fine. The voice acting, soundtrack and animation works good for me.
The story didn't work for me. It was a couple of short stories that ends with a nice final, but the stories itself was boring.
It's merely ok to watch if nothing better comes up.
The music in the movie and the wonderful characters still enchant me at age 42.
This film takes a while to go anywhere but once it picks up it's pretty good. It's nowhere near the best Disney movie but it's okay.
'Robin Hood (1973)' is a solid animated adventure which transforms the titular folklore hero and his band of merry friends into anthropomorphic animals. It doesn't do anything particularly revolutionary or, even, all that noteworthy, but it does everything you'd expect it to and it does it all rather well. It's an entertaining time throughout, with its variety of set-pieces being both fun and exciting. There are some proper stakes, too, and the antics of our heroes often have tangible consequences. A real highlight of the thing is Peter Ustinov's performance as a feline 'momma's boy' version of Prince John, with his self-righteous bumbling and barely disguised insecurity making for a rather unique villain. The entire affair has a sort of storybook aesthetic to it that makes it incredibly easy to watch. It's enjoyable and well-conceived. 7/10
This film is a lively animated adaptation of the Robin Hood tales. This time, the characters are animals which is a choice that pays off. Every character has their own distinct personality which adds to the humour of the film.
Not a fan, personally.1973's 'Robin Hood' has never really connected to me on any level. It's far from a bad film, but I simply don't like how they changed it from humans to animals - not for any neophobic reasons, I just don't think it works as well with foxes, lions etc.The voice cast, though, are the standout part of this. I always enjoy Phil Harris, even if him as Little John here is practically Baloo ('The Jungle Book') 2.0. Roger Miller is delightful as Alan-a-Dale, while Peter Ustinov is good as Prince John.The plot is OK, just not massively entertaining or interesting in my opinion, while animation-wise it's fine. I personally wouldn't have changed it to be about our furry friends, though at least it makes this production standout from the countless other adaptations of this legend.I can see why many love this, I just don't care for it much.
I love this movie. It's the tale of Robin Hood, but they're animals. I'm quite amused by that idea. It has a decent story, interesting characters, good dialogue, and so much more. It's a great film overall.
This animation have various copys of other animation. But, is a great animation
A regular movie. Copied a lot of scenes and characters from the previous films and it spoiled the film
Disney's Robin Hood is everything a good Robin Hood movie should be. It's fun, it's fast, it has a sense of humor, and every character is memorable with a pitch perfect performance conveying their mannerisms. Prince John played by the late great Peter Ustinov is having the time of his life playing a spoiled cowardly brat of a man child who bully's those around him while dealing with barely concealed jealousy and mommy issues. The scenes with Prince John and Sir Hiss are easily the funniest in the movie, and create a memorable villain. Unfortunately where the movie falls short is in its animation and technical aspects. The character models are imaginative and well designed, but there's noticeable instances where the filmmakers are recycling animation from other projects including Sword in the Stone and Jungle Book. The recycling is usually well hidden, but it often causes distraction in some of the more elaborate sequences of the movie. This is as close to a perfect adaptation of Robin Hood as one can hope to get, I just wish it wasn't hampered by budget constraints.
Watched Robin Hood amazing voice Performances from Brian Bedford(The Bruce) as Robin Hood, Phil Harris(The Jungle Book) as Little John also starring Monica Evans(The Aristocats) as Maid Marian, Roger Miller(Daniel Boone) as Alan-O-Dale, Andy Devine(Stagecoach) as Friar Tuck, Terry-Thomas(Im All Right Jack) as Sir Hiss, Candy Canididio(The Wizard Of Oz) as Captain Of The Guard, Carole Shelley(The Odd Couple) as Lady Kluck, Pat Buttram(The Old West) as The Sheriff Of Nottingham and Sir Peter Ustinov(Spartacus) As Prince John/King Richard.The film was great I enjoyed it the animals playing fictional characters also the characters were fantastic also the film has everything drama and comedy Robin hood is noble while Prince John is whiny though he could be ruthless at times its great to see the entire undermine him loved it happy this influenced Zootopia as well.Amazing score By George Bruns(Sleeping Beauty), Directing By Wolfgang Reitherman(The Sword & The Stone) One Of The Best Robin Hood Movies . 8/10
Not among the most moving, clever or innovative Disney animated movies, but still a good one. Antropomorphic animals make it more interesting than the same chaotic story would be with a less interesting visual depiction. Although all Disney animation aim to children, perhaps other movies work better than this for adults. The legend of Robin Hood is less the story focus and more a background for his love story with Merrian.
This probably stands out as the first time I really noticed Disney turn to cast an ensemble of more established 'stars' as their voice talents - a wonderfully paired duo of Peter Ustinov and Terry-Thomas as Prince John and 'Sir Hiss' as well as Phil Harris as 'Little John' and 'King of the Road' crooner Roger Miller narrating the whole tale as 'Alan-a-Dale' really do animate this story splendidly. Everyone knows the story of Robin Hood - the gent of 12th century English folklore. When the King heads off to fight the Saracens in the crusades, his evil brother remains to extort all he can from the poor population whilst Robin Hood leads the rebellion against this tyrannical regime. The personifications of animals in this film is a masterstroke - and the choice of animals: a snake, fox, bear, lion, badger and even a tortoise all add hugely to the symbolism and fun of this thoroughly enjoyable rendering of the ultimate good v evil tale. I always seem to have a problem with the intrusive scores in Disney's animations - it never seems to let up long enough to let the voices take centre stage, and as such is quite distracting much of the times. That said, I am nit-picking - aside from a rather protracted musical interlude - the action animations are first class and this is a cracking film.
Dashing outlaws and dastardly lawmen collide once again in Disney's appropriately scrappy, talking animal production of a well-worn literary tale. Smartly cast as a thrifty, roguish fox, Robin Hood is the charismatic engine that drives the whole affair. Whether athletically embarrassing palace guards in public, lifting a stash of the king's gold on the sly or winking at gobsmacked kids to share a taste of the day's thrills, he's a mesmerizing character. Dare I say, the animated version is right in-line with Errol Flynn's timeless, entrancing live-action take from thirty-odd years prior. One glance at Robin's optimistic vigor and never-say-die attitude and it's tough to look elsewhere.After a few lean years, Disney's animation department seems to have turned a corner with Robin Hood. They still take some artistic shortcuts - this film's become notorious for its use of repurposed shots from prior features, plus its copy-and-paste stock animations - but the workmanship is top-notch, bursting with life and detail and smooth, extravagant flourishes in motion. There's an energy to this picture, both in action and appearance, that smooths over most of the rough edges. It's not top-shelf material - neither as ambitious, nor as miraculous as the daunting epics of the studio's past - but few are. As innocent, inoffensive, swashbuckling adventures go, one could do a whole lot worse.
Disney's Robin Hood is a simple, but fun introduction for kids to the folklore surrounding this famous English outlaw. However, even though this film is only 83 minutes long, the story feels a little watered down. This was the beginning of the Dark Age of Disney, after all. Nevertheless, this movie features memorable songs, entertaining moments, and unique characters. I'd say the ups outnumber the downs in this version of Nottingham.
Robin Hood is a blast of a movie. It's filled with softcore violence and mature personalities. The animation was spectacular like always.Robin Hood is a gem.
Disney takes on unjust economics and class warfare: there's literally a 7-year old bunny with a wooden sword yelling 'Death to tyrants!' at one point. Undeniably goofy and fun (the archery tournament is a blast and the villains are hilarious), but it doesn't shy away from the despair of poverty and oppression ('Sometimes ups outnumber the downs, but not in Nottingham'). The plot lacks a solid thrust and arc, but it still hits all the right notes, especially with that golden soundtrack.
Although I can see the charm the animation, the story is dull, unimaginative and adds nothing new or interesting to the legend except to make all of the characters anthropomorphic animals. And I'm not at all opposed to that idea, as you can do wonderful, smart ideas with them.The problem is that half the cast voice the characters with southern American accents and the damn soundtrack and songs come directly from 1970s American folk music rather than the medieval Celtic music both accurate and ideal for that time and placeAnd don't get me started on Maid Marian. She has no other character trait other than to be in love with the protagonist - a woeful trend in the main female characters in the early films of Disney.Robin and Marian's relationship is so bland. They claim to know each other since they were children, but since they haven't met since they were at a young age, there's no reason for them to be so in love. If they had met briefly as they were adults it would have made more sense.I really don't have a clue as why it's rated so high on here.
This animated Disney movie is my number 1 all time favorite animated Disney movie in the whole world.
Directed by Wolfgang Reitherman. Starring (voices) Peter Ustinov, Brian Bedford, Phil Harris, Terry-Thomas, Monica Evans, Pat Buttram, Andy Devine, Roger Miller, Carole Shelley, George Lindsey, Ken Curtis. (G)Charming animated chronicle of the famed English outlaw from Walt Disney Productions, featuring a cast of anthropomorphic animals in each of the roles (Robin Hood and Marian are foxes, Prince John is a lion, Little John is a bear, etc.). No real story arc here; just a series of barely-connected episodes where Robin tries to purloin riches from the dastardly prince every chance he gets (and the prince, in turn, does everything he can to trap and capture his nemesis). Bogs down around the halfway point with a snoozer of a romantic interlude and a little too long spent with despairing peasants in dark dungeons, but finishes with a lively prison break and satisfying wrap-up. Lots of laughs and spirited adventure, and the voice acting is pitch perfect all the way, with special notice to Ustinov and Terry-Thomas as Prince John and Sir Hiss (a snake, natch)--their hilarious interplay is more fun than any feat of archery and swordplay or rollicking getaway on hand. Miller, playing a rooster version of Alan-a-Dale, provides a handful of memorable songs ('Whistle-Stop' and 'Oo-De-Lally' among them), yet it was Floyd Huddleston/George Bruns' sappy, soggy 'Love' that got an Oscar nomination, go figure!78/100
Pretty good, for a furry movie. I'd like to see Disney try to live-action this one.
Maybe it's because it's a little more serious or dark in the middle to end, or because it has a rich tyrant exploiting the weaker and less priviledged of society? Idk I am literally guessing why anyone would hate this movie. It is portrayed with animals and there's just enough of Bambi type cuteness and innocence in it to balance out the more serious parts of the film. Great film all the way around.
In my initial review of this movie, I was quite generous with some of my criticism of it, and since my brother and I watched it again yesterday through the 40th Anniversary Blu-Ray, I want to elaborate more on why I believe this movie is overrated.The story is full of conveniences and is overall just strange for a Disney movie, and not the surreal strange like Dumbo or Pinocchio. It feels very much like Disney was really improvising the plot as they went through and didn't take time to explain things like why Toby is suddenly with the rabbit children when Skippy shoots his first arrow, how Allan-a-Dale connects to the rest of the Merry Men, how the vixen Maid Marian is related by blood to lions Prince John and King Richard, et cetera. In fact, you can actually sum up Robin Hood's plot as 'That Happens: The Movie'. The Phony King of England comes right out of nowhere after Love (strange it got an Academy Award nomination, because it's not really special other than to give Maid Marian another voice). Its pacing is inconsistent, and despite being set around 1194 (King Richard returned to England that year), it features badminton, balloons, and references to football (complete with the background music for the beautiful brawl being a rendition of On Wisconsin). Not to mention, despite being set in Central England, many of the characters give a feel that it would be set in the American South. The music has more of a country than medieval European feel to it, plus Trigger's crossbows are used to make rifle references. There was even one point where 'Devonshire' was mispronounced (as 'Devon shai-ur' rather than 'Devon-shur' in proper English). Lastly, it has probably the most anti-climactic ending in any Disney movie I can remember. We had established that Robin Hood was a trickster, so of course it wouldn't be unexpected that he would feign his own death. Then we run into the cliché of 'evil master gets p*ssed at his henchman', and then we cut immediately to Robin and Marian's wedding without developing King Richard or Marian any more.Because of the anachronisms and the fact they are convinced they are telling the REAL story of Robin Hood, I am personally convinced Disney instead gave us the depiction of a group of 1973 furries who decided to parody the story of Robin Hood. I could at least respect it more that way, but until Disney confirms such (not that they would), the plot is definitely an indicator that since Walt's passing 7 years before the company had lost their way.Another big indication that Disney was pulling no punches with being cheap is the animation. Conceptually, Don Bluth managed to bring out a great looking Robin Hood and Skippy, and some other characters do present a bit of creativity with their species (like Lady Kluck). On the other hand you have discount Baloo as Little John (both voiced by Phil Harris and having multicolored flashing eyes in their respective movies' menagerie musical numbers), discount Kaa as Sir Hiss (with identical hypnosis and contortion to match), and mice from The Aristocats. Speaking of which, Robin Hood stole a lot of its animation from earlier movies; for The Phony King of England; Maid Marian's shaking is copied from Duchess' in The Aristocats, and her clapping is Snow White's. Little John's dance with Lady Kluck in the same number is taken from Baloo's dance with King Louie in The Jungle Book. The drumming rabbit is copied from The Aristocats' 'Everybody Wants to Be a Cat'. Finally, during the 'beautiful brawl', there is a maze lanes portion that rips off Alice in Wonderland. Of course, it does use plenty of its own animation later on, most notably for the Sheriff. The lighting messes up at times by making some characters' bodies look the same color (i.e. in the start of 'Love', Robin's body starts out completely orange before his neck corrects itself to white). I don't know if I can blame Disney back in 1973 because they were becoming as poor as the Nottinghamians when John raised the taxes, but I was just resentful at how many corners they decided to cut here (they even used a live-action bell for Friar Tuck's church; it was added post-production). As the Sheriff would put it, 'There's somethin' funny goin' on around here.'There is (as I had mentioned in my previous review) an alternate ending that, if they actually used, almost salvages this movie. It trades the lack of climax for a more manageable deus ex machina appearance by King Richard, and the way its heavy heart was written in (at least as shown in Most Wanted and 40th Anniversary) actually contrasts pretty nicely with the tone of the rest of the film. With a bit more polish on its script, it would have at least had the movie finish on a more satisfying note.There are things that I will say this film does right; while the music doesn't always feel in place it's not really horrible, and it does distract a little bit from the two-bit animation it often comes with. The settings do feel appropriate for 1194 Central England, the voice acting is spot on in spite of not enough British voices, and there are occasional and intentional chuckle inducers. It still has Disney color and charm that helps it contribute somewhat to the magic, and because of this, I will say that most children will have a blast with this film. They can appreciate having a relatable character in Skippy, the fair idol of Robin Hood, the beauty of Maid Marian, and a pretty fun villain duo of Prince John and Sir Hiss. The relationship between Robin and Marian, as well as some of the writing, could potentially captivate some adults to like this movie too, if my account icon says anything about that...So overall, is Robin Hood a bad animated movie in general? No. Is it a bad Disney movie? Yes. The sad thing is, Disney probably couldn't foresee that merely 13 years later, they were on the verge of closing Walt Disney Animation Studios for good. While The Black Cauldron would prove be their near-poison, in an alternate universe where they did fold this would not be a good film to have near the end of their résumé. It's good to watch with the kids, but don't feel overly surprised if you feel underwhelmed after watching it.
Nothing groundbreaking like the 4 Toy Story movies, but some good vintage UK fun. See if you can get this on VHS in the second hand stores.
Robin Hood is such a wonderful movie with a great cast and storyline!!!! It has laughter throughout the film, hope, love, touch your heart moments. I would HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE TO ANYONE!!! A+++ Film
From a child until now a grown woman this has always been one of my favourite movies and definitely my favourite animation.
Robin Hood the fox was my first crush and I just wanted to be Maid Marion. I do enjoy Robin Hood movies Prince of Thieves & Men in Tights but to me this is still the best.
The 'dark age' of Disney animation is generally accepted as having stretched from Walt Disney's death in 1966 (or if you'd prefer, right after the release of THE JUNGLE BOOK in late 1967) until the release of THE LITTLE MERMAID in 1989. The films produced during this 22 year period continue to receive rather mixed reception from animation afficionados, though those who grew up with them tend to remember them more fondly. The 1973 ROBIN HOOD might be the most popular of these dark age Disney pictures: aside from the furries who love it for obvious reasons, plenty of folks born between the 1970s and 1990s are just crazy about this ROBIN HOOD.I was born in the early 1990s and didn't see ROBIN HOOD in full until I was in my 20s, but I have to say, the film is charming in a lowkey way. The characters are likable and the comic episodes are entertaining. It's unashamedly a children's movie, but it isn't insulting about that. The animation isn't up to the high standard set by Disney in its earlier work and the music isn't always memorable, but the movie is at least fun. I get its cult appeal.
This Disney adaption of the Robin Hood story sees each of the characters portrayed by animals but keeps the basics of the story. Robin, along with his friend Little John, 'borrow' from the wealthy to help the poor and there is nobody more deserving of being robbed than Prince John; a character who is constantly raising the taxes for the ordinary people. After being robbed the Prince plans to trap Robin Hood with an archery competition. When that fails and the people start mocking him even more he raises taxes yet again and has Robin's friend Friar Tuck gaoled... of course it is only a matter of time before Robin is planning a rescue.I know that many people consider this to be a weaker Disney production but I rather enjoyed it. I recalled watching it as a child but didn't remember too much about it other than the fact that Robin Hood was a fox and that I'd enjoyed it. Watching it again forty five years later it still entertained me. The story may be pared to the basics but that is ideal for a younger audience. The characters are introduced in a good way; the heroes are suitably heroic without losing the common touch and the villains are bad but with traits that ensure that they won't scare younger viewers... who can be scared of a lion who sucks his thumb! The story provides plenty of solid child-friendly action and some good laughs; it also provides some more downbeat moments as we see the people suffering under John's tax regime. There are the expected songs; they may not be classics but they are fun enough. Having the characters portrayed as animals was rather fun; this was helped by a solid voice cast that included Peter Ustinov, as King John, and Terry Thomas as is sidekick Sir Hiss, a snake. The rest of the cast are solid too; some viewers might not be keen on the mix of English and American voices but it didn't really bother me... who knows what people of that time actually sounded like?! Overall I'd certainly recommend this to fans of animated films that are suitable for all ages.
Robin Hood is to me the best animated classic movie Disney has ever created.
This is the movie i can watch 50x a year (maybe more) and still not get bored. (I can tell you every line from the screenplay in the Dutch language)
What i really like about Robin Hood is that the story tells from the aspect of the Animal Kingdom.
Robin is a Fox, Little John is a bear, Prince John is a Lion. I wonder who from Disney came with that brilliant idea.
All the animals in this movie are great but Sir Hiss (The Snake) is the most funny one to me.
Robin Hood is a classic you have to own in your personal collection.P.s between you and me. As a kid i was very scared of Allan a' Dale (The Rooster)
I haven't watched this movie since I was about 8 years old and I have to say, I completely understand why I loved it as a kid.Such a fun movie and has so many hilarious moments! I absolutely loved the rabbit family and the other children. Overall the movie has impeccable voice talent, I'm a little biased because every moment of the movie brought me rushing back to childhood.This is such a wonderful animated movie from the days of yesteryear and to be honest I would love to see this movie re-done in today's graphics for the children of today. I would hope that kids today would respect and enjoy this style of art but it seems that they only enjoy 3D animated features.Such a great story and told so well, will definitely watch again and will continue to watch until my kids FINALLY like it.
Classic Disney effort with nice background music and animals in the place of humans.Peter Ustinoff steals the show as mummy's boy.
I used to watch this as a kid and it's my favorite Disney movie. While it may not be the greatest movie made by Disney as it was made during their dark age, I still think it's enjoyable. I like the characters, the animation, action and the story. It's strange how half of the characters have american accents and the other half have english accents but I don't know I think it blends well. The story's been told several times but what makes this different is how the characters are anthropomorphic animals.For those who don't know it's about Robin Hood (a red fox voiced by Brian Bedford) robbing from the rich to give to the poor. His target in particular is the greedy, cowardly yet conniving Prince John (a lion voiced by the late Peter Ustinov) who took over after his brother's absence. Helping him on his exploits are his jovial, smooth talking partner Little John (a bear voiced by Phil Harris), Friar Tuck (a badger voiced by Andy Devine) and later on his love interest Maid Marian (also a fox voiced by Monica Evans) and her friend Lady Cluck (a chicken voiced by Carole Shelley).In addition to Prince John he also has to deal with his minions Sir Hiss (obviously a snake voiced by Terry Thomas), The Sheriff (a wolf voiced by Pat Buttram who also voiced Chief from The Fox and the Hound), and his flunkies that are two dimwitted vultures named Nutsy and Trigger (voiced by George Lindsay and Ken Curtis). Hilarity ensures when Robin steps up to challenge John's leadership. Probably the best example's when John shows his craftiness by setting up a trap for Robin Hood in the form of an archery contest in which he and Little John disguise themselves in order to enter though after their ruse is discovered hi jinks ensure. The action and choreography in this scene's great. It can get chaotic but you still follow it. The payoff at the end is funny because Lady Cluck ends up stealing the show by taking on a bunch of soldiers in the style of a football game.The characters are likable in some way or form. Their chemistry is enjoyable and even the villains are those love to hate kind. Prince John and Sir Hiss are laughable in their chemistry. The action's great. How it's paced is smooth and natural. In fact the final confrontation has a huge, intense payoff and in the end it wraps up pretty well. I think it's a good movie. I think the only nitpicks I have are the fact that they recycle animation from previous movies. It doesn't bother me that much but it does come as lazy though I guess I can forgive it being that it was made during a rough time. Speaking of rough, the same can be said about the animation. The backgrounds are nice but the characters have a mostly scruffy look. It's not distracting but it's very noticeable. Another thing I noticed is where was Maid Marian for most of the movie? Wouldn't it have been cool if they showed more of Robin and Marian's relationship as well as why they briefly split?Aside from that it's an underrated classic. Take it for what it's worth and see for yourself.
I watched this film so many times as a kid and I loved everything about it thwn. From the animation, to characters to the backgrounds, to the soundtrack. Now that I'm an adult, I still like the film, but not as mucb as when I was a kid.
Wonderful charming, a lovely retelling if the classic Robin Hood story. Robin being a Fox is a stroke of genius. A must watch for any age.
One of the best Disney classics, and one of the best adaptations ever. Have a good mood and funny story. Highly recommend.
This film tells the traditional story of Robin Hood. However, it replaces humans with animals, in the best cartoon style and other Disney films like 'Lady and the Tramp' or 'The Little Mermaid' (where many characters are fish and sea creatures that speak). However, this film had the opposite destiny to these two examples: while they became well-liked classics, 'Robin Hood' was eventually forgotten.Because? Well, the answer is clear to me: the film does not have the necessary quality. Kids will definitely like it because it's colorful and it's funny. But the film will not be able to please the adults, who will be deeply bored and think 'how is it possible that I, as a child, liked this?'The truth is that Disney has not always produced successes. I have been reviewed here some movies that the studio, if they could go back, would probably never have done or would have done in a radically different way. I'm remembering, for example, 'The Black Cauldron', which was a failure and is considered by many (and in all fairness) to be one of the worst films Disney ever made.This movie is not totally bad. The characters play their role well, the voice actors do not deserve any negative criticism, the story is fairly true to the Robin Hood's story and there are some quality dialogues and scenes. The problem is that magic is missing. That spark is missing, that magical element we feel in other films. The songs are also here, and quite markedly, but most of them are so dumb that it deserves to end in oblivion.
It's the classic Robin Hood characters as animal characters in a Disney animation. While it is a classic, it's at a time in between the traditional Disney classics and the newer classics like Beauty and the Beast. It doesn't have a catchy tune to hang on to. The music is mostly country folk genre and doesn't have the pop punch. The animation is traditional and bright. While it's not breaking any new grounds, it does have the charms of traditional hand drawn Disney. I do love the character designs. Robin Hood himself lacks a certain charisma. Brian Bedford is a Shakespearean actor which leaves the lead feeling old fashion and old. Overall, this is a fun little adventure for the little ones but one that is mostly forgettable for older teens or adults. Honestly, I don't remember much soon after watching it except for the often-done archery competition. This is definitely a second tier Disney.
Robin Hood is a weak animation, my memory of it far exceeded anything it had to offer.It's a bit of a musical. Some of the tunes are catchy and I liked Robin disguised as the old blind man and the tax collecting sheriff, but that's about it. Prince John's quite annoying and laughs were non-existent. A bit of a chore to sit through.
Adorably cute, wonderful music and songs that get stuck in your head for ages.This is one of those movies that I show to every child I meet, and every adult who shares the sad story of never seeing it.Disney did a fantastic job of taking the story of Robin Hood, which has been done to death and back, and making it fun.
I used to have a tape of this movie when I was younger, and I always remembered watching it quite a few times. When I thought back to the movie, I couldn't really recall about the movie, except the music, and a few random moments. I saw this was on Netflix, and I re-watched the movie with some friends. We all had the same reaction; the music, like most Disney films, was great, but this time, the plot was boring. The whole movie seems a bit episodic, and unfocused. I don't regret seeing it, though. This movie should be fine for kids, just something pop in, and entertain them for a while. Of you're older, I'd say 15 and older, this movie is going to be more boring than entertaining.
I really like Robin Hood. The colours, the humor, the villain, the action scenes. I just think it has everything to be good entertainment for all. It is a shame that it is rarely spoken of. I find it SO much better than the cutesy and lazy Aristocats which is really overrated. Prince John and Sir Hiss are hilarious villains throughout the movie. Basically a spoiled brat who cries loudly when things don't go his way. It is hard to make such a person credible, but Peter Ustinov does a great job. And he also sucks his thumb, genius! Actually, the Sheriff of Nottingham is a far more cruel villain in the movie.Robin Hood also has these great changes in atmosphere. From whimsical and colourful to dark and melancholic. And the soundtrack is amazing! I don't care what others say, the songs are gorgeous. When the soft and sincere 'Love' plays I cry every time, it is so romantic. You really feel the romance. And 'Not In Nottingham' sets the perfect mood when all citizens in Nottingham seem to have lost all hope. It also has some of the best suspense from a Disney movie and a good climax. Go watch it yourself. I will not ruin the experience.
There have been so many treatments of the Robin Hood legend. In this animated one, we are serenaded by the wonderful Roger Miller (who died way too soon). He plays a singing rooster. The plot is the old Sheriff of Nottingham going after the poacher and thief, Robin Hood. Robin wins the big archery tournament and hooks up with Maid Marion (they are both foxes or there would be some issues here). Of course, Prince John and the Sheriff will stop at nothing to get their man and use the threatened hanging of Friar Tuck to draw our amazing archer into the open. There's no question how this ends. The animation is truly striking and it's a nice story. You will recognize some of the voices though we must go back some time.
Now the plot is like most Robin Hood stories robin and his band steal from the rich and gives to the poor fights the Sheriff of Nottingham and King John but with anthropomorphic animals. However, this film seems to begin in the middle of the story after Robin has lost lordship and been branded a traitor to the crown and an outlaw however, none of that is ever mentioned in this film as it is lazy in its storytelling and would rather begin in the middle than at the beginning like most well-structured stories. Now this version of Robin is a fox and tries to be suave and witty like Errol Flynn but comes off as an annoying idiot with a cockney accent. This version of Maid Marian is bland and boring who loves Robin however, it is never shown as to why she loves him only hinted at because the writers are lazy, also make sure not to google her with safe search off otherwise you'll need a lot of bleach. Little John is basically Baloo from the jungle book and recycles some of his animations from the jungle book as well as the same voice actor. There also a King John, who is a lion, but he and his followers are overly incompetent to the point of nearing mental retardation King John is also shown to be a total coward (not much of a Lionheart ironically) and the only reason he is unable to outwit Robin is because of his sheer incompetence.The film starts off with a stupid chicken narrating the tale of Robin Hood and says this is the real version of Robin Hood and the cringe overflows from there. After an annoying song and dance Robin and Little John walk through the forest while a song is playing about them being in the forest (redundant I know). Then the Sheriff of Nottingham and his men ambush the pair of imbeciles, but being incompetent oafs, they lose sight of him and easily give up their hunt further illustrating their stupidity. They then dress up as gypsies and do what gypsies do steal and though they say they are not robbers their eyes seem to gleam greedily when they spy the king's hoard of gold and proceed to steal it from him while he and his men just sit there like rocks completely unaware they being robbed even though little John clearly just fill his pockets with gold in broad daylight no one notices and they leave with their pockets full and their enemies stumped. What further illustrates that this version of robin is greedy and vain is when he only gives a small bag of gold to a poor family and is never seen giving more than that meaning he and Little John greedily kept it for themselves what irony.Then the worst part of the film occurs the annoying children who are just disgustingly cute and cry like little babies and they just make the film even worse luckily after about 10 minutes they are gone for the moment. Then King John sets up an archery contest, which should be near the end of the story not in the beginning, however they did start the story in the middle, but it still feels rushed. Of course, robin wins and wears a disguise that would only fool a blind beggar, but it fools the idiot king and his guards and if robin had not been so egotistical about winning he could have left, and the king would have been none the wiser. But eventually even the moronic King John catches on and tells his men to seize robin. However Little John can sneak up behind king John and of course when robin is found out he sticks a dagger in john's back telling him to let Robin go or he'll cut him. But the sheriff notices the king's strange behavior of letting robin go and sees little John is threatening the king and sneaks up on John who get away without a scratch. They then escape there's a cringey scene with Robin and Maid Marian.The sheriff of Nottingham then arrests friar tuck and the king announces he will be hanged to lure out robin into yet another trap, but being an incompetent oaf messes that up too and Robin is able to rescue all the captives in the castle because the guards are brainless buffoons. But then as they are escaping robin gets too greedy for his own good and steals too much gold waking up king john who alerts his men to attack but they fail as they lack even mediocre intelligence then everyone is about to escape but robin back goes back to save an annoying child at the risk of his own life and is cornered by the king's men but with them being idiots they let him escape and he flees to the tower where the sheriff is waiting for him and chases him while setting the tower ablaze and in the best scene in the whole movie it looks like robin about to become fried fox but then jumps into the moat surviving the fall and the arrows being fired at him but makes them wait before surface to provide false drama then they all escape and king Richard shows up to arrest his brother and Robin marries Maid Marian and become an in-law instead of an outlaw. This robin is not the dashing hero like Errol Flynn in the Adventures of Robin Hood nor is he the more hardened warrior like Sean Connery in Robin and Marian the only other robin he's comparable to is Kevin Costner, who also made a mockery of Robin Hood, but at least that version didn't help to spawn the cringe inducing furries who draw animal porn and dress up in stupid costumes, yuck.
I agree with another user that said it's one of the most underrated Disney movies. It's been now redone for a Blu-ray re-release. After watching it again, out came my childhood memories, it's a masterpiece, really.The audio could have gotten a full remaster, it still sounds muffled. The picture is very crisp and now shows some edges of the drawings themselves.It's been a long time since I last watched it and I'm very glad I could watch it again, and treasure this forever. Thanks for the memories Disney!
ROBIN HOOD is a Disneyfied version of the popular folk legend, positing the various familiar characters as various animals. Thus Robin himself is a charming fox, and one of the villains is a lisping snake played by the great Terry-Thomas. Overall I found this to be a much better production than expected given its reputation; the music is toe-tappingly good and the voice actors work hard to add emotion and meaning to their voices. There's little to complain about regarding the old-fashioned animation, which has real character. Peter Ustinov is a particularly oily delight as the villain of the piece. The plot moves along at a fair old whack and it's all very light-hearted and comedic without being silly or juvenile. In fact, it might just be one of the most entertaining Robin Hood films to come out of Hollywood.
I rent this movie for my children in 1993 and end up with them watching this cartoon for first time, once more now on DVD l revisited this Disney's version of tale of Robin Hood this plot is the same but oriented by children's taste bringing a good thief who steal of the rich to give to the poor and the love with lady Marian, helping the people against the phony King John, marvelously conceived by Disney this amazing cartoon not allowed for children only!!!
Disney's Robin Hood (1973) is often overlooked and has been very underrated over the years. I couldn't ever imagine why in the world it would be though! It's so good! It has great animation just like all Disney classics and it also has very well written and colorful characters. The characters are just effortless to love, it's nearly impossible not to fall in love with them. Many are amusing and will make you laugh, then they'll tug at your heart just like only Disney can do. There's great friendship and romance shared between characters in the movie. The plot is simple and everyone knows what the tale of Robin Hood is all about. Take from the rich and give to the poor kind of thing. The plot is so well executed. The filmmakers do it with charm, wit, and a good bit of humor. The perfect combination for children! This again is a great choice to have for family movie night! It will entertain both the young and old, it's universal as far as age and gender goes in its ability to please an audience. I love the songs, they're fun and catchy. The villain is good too, we have a very silly villain here, not too seriously evil when compared to say the evil queen, and that works for this movie. All in all Disney knocks it out of the park once again. 10/10!
The legend of Robin Hood's exploits may have occurred in the 13th century (i.e. 1200's) and the earliest known written account is from the 14th century via 'Piers Ploughman' by William Langland. So essentially it is a very medieval story/legend. Disney's animated take on the legend is a fairly enjoyable family experience. It does have one glaring shortcoming which I'll relate later in my review.In typical Disney fashion, the characters are all anthropomorphized animals, i.e. animals which are human-like. Robin Hood is a fox, Little John is a bear, Friar Tuck is a badger, Maid Marion is a vixen, King John is a lion, etc. The story is told by Alan-a-Dale a rooster-minstrel play by Phil Harris. The characters are generally true to those of the original legend, and to give it credit. The friendship between Robin and Little John is legendary and of course the love affair between him and Maid Marion. Friar Tuck provides the voice of morality to the story, very similar to Friar Laurence of 'Romeo and Juliet'. And it does include the famous archery contest which is missing in many screen renditions of the story. Although most kids have heard of Robin Hood, American kids generally don't know when the Middle Ages occurred let alone it's cultural heritage. When I saw this film, I knew of Robin Hood but I don't believe I quite understand that the story was supposed to take place in the 1200's.While I can buy into the anthropomorphized take on the characters, 'Disney's Robin Hood' is weak in one glaring respect. The filmmakers opted for songs by American songwriters, particularly Phil Harris and Roger Miller, known for country-western pop tunes such as 'King of the Road'. When I saw this Disney's offering of the medieval legend as a kid, I didn't know anything about medieval secular music. Not until I was in college I found out there are quite a number of secular tunes which survive from the late Middle Ages. I think Disney missed out on a golden opportunity to use medieval music rather than late 20th century country-style tunes. Phil Harris tells the story in a gruff American country voice with an acoustic guitar. The guitar wouldn't be invented for another 500 years from around the time of the events. In other words, medieval minstrels wouldn't use guitars. So sadly, the music style fails to bring us into the 13th century. (Roger Miller would a decade later write the score for a Broadway production of 'Huckleberry Finn' called 'Big River' which was a much more appropriate use of his talents. He would win awards for the music.) Still, all things considered, Disney's 'Robin Hood' stays truer to the story than many other offerings. The later 'Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves' is not as well written as the Disney animated film, in particular they cut out the archery contest. The best in recent years is probably 'Robin Hood' starring Russell Crowe and directed by Ridley Scott. However, even that offering is only about half the story as he doesn't become 'Robin Hood' until the very end.
Sandwiched in between the death of Walt Disney, the visionary who established the entire Disney brand, and the company's partnership with Pixar that produced Toy Story, was a period of time in which Disney Co. was in limbo. This film came along smack dab during that period, but still managed to turn in a more than decent effort.The basic plot of Disney's Robin Hood closely follows the classic tale, where Robin (with the help of Little John and Friar Tuck) tries to save the poor citizens of Nottingham from a corrupt Sheriff and King, all the while striving for the hand of that beautiful Maid Marion. The fantastical twist, however, sees the characters being portrayed in an animal form that children will love. Robin is a crafty fox, Marion is his lovely vixen, King John is a cowardly lion, and the evil Sheriff is a menacing wolf, to name but a few.The plot of the film pretty much meanders around aimlessly, but is filled with enough action, hijinks, and subtle dashes of humor to keep your interest. In a nice addition, a slew of child-like characters add some heart to the movie, as well as give the kiddies some contemporaries to identify with (I did while watching the film as a youngster!).Perhaps the hallmark of the entire effort, though, is the fantastic music. The soothing, clear vocals of Roger Miller narrate portions of the film, as well as provide the signature songs. Other characters also lend their vocal talents to the soundtrack, and none fail.Thus, although Robin Hood isn't as 'classic' as the early Disney collection or as ultimately engaging as the films of the Pixar era, children (and nostalgic adults) can still find plenty of things to enjoy about this movie. Plus, with Russell Crowe set to resurrect the Robin Hood franchise in a feature film this summer, now is the time to re-discover this hidden gem.
An underrated Disney Classic. Disney was the man to beat back in the days. They have had a few missteps over the past few years, if you ask me. Frozen is one of the most overrated pieces of boredom in the history of cinema. Anyway, I'm going off topic because I want to make the point that even though this is a great film by any standards and age, it is in fact one of the lesser Disney animated features from Disney's silver age; after the death of Walt Disney. So yeah. The songs at lacking but the laughs are more than there. But more importantly, this film has heart. It is the classic tale of Robin Hood told in furry form before furry was a thing. I was going to talk more about this but I'm sure if you're reading this review than you've seen this classic already. The cowardly king John and his snake servant make this film exceptional.
After years of only watching bits and pieces of this movie, I finally watched the entirety of this on a recent flight from Korean Air. Made after Walt Disney's death, it still had many of his old crew involved making this quite entertainingly funny to watch. All the characters of the Robin Hood tale are portrayed as various forest animals with the leading character and his leading lady being foxes. This marked Phil Harris' third and final voice role in a Disney movie, having previously been such in The Jungle Book (Uncle Walt's last in the animated category) and The AristoCats. Roger Miller contributed some songs and also voiced a character though the tune that got an Oscar nomination-'Love'-was written and performed by someone else. Overall, Robin Hood was a nice movie to watch on a flight back home...
'Robin Hood'I love the old animated Disney films. Even the lesser known or poorer ones such as 'Oliver and Company' or 'Aristocats'. The charm to Robin Hood is his persona and his relationships off of the other characters. His rapport with Little John is heart-warming and I do like the sense of camaraderie between them. His love/romance with Maid Marian is sweet, though I do wish that more time was devoted to it. In fact, Maid Marian vanishes in the third act of the film and only appears at the end of the films during their marriage. Where did she go? Was she just sitting in the forest and waiting for the action to pass her by? She displays some ferocity and bravery when she throws a pie in a guard's face during the action sequence in the middle of the film (Which is a hilarious and greatly done set piece). I am a sucker for romance and I do love the chemistry that the two foxes share, it's something that you can all sit down and enjoy. The supporting characters are enjoyably fun and memorable. The one thing that old Disney films (and some newer ones) can do so well is the side characters. You remember them all and you love seeing them get their way. King John and Hiss are OTT and it sounds like the actors are having an absolute ball with their roles. I can't say I didn't like them, as even if they're are evil, they provide some hysterical lines. The kids didn't annoy me here, as I thought they would. They're adorable and I did like their enthusiasm of following after Robin Hood. The action is great and the final climax is bundles of fun. I would say more, but the charming main character, the adorable romance and the fun side-characters provide a good 80 minutes of fun filled fluff.
When I was young, I loved watching Disney films with my family. From Snow White & The Seven Dwarfs to Brother Bear, I loved every film. So, with Robin Hood being one of their classics, you'd think I'd like it too! Unfortunately, even when I was young, I never cared much for this film...but I couldn't stop watching it either. Why is that? Was it the animation? The characters? The story? The anthro characters?Let's talk about the story. If you know the legend of Robin Hood, then this movie is nothing new. It's basically Robin Hood and his buddy Little John robbing the rich and giving to the poor. It's a classic Robin Hood story that's been told many of times, but Disney does manage to find a way to make it creative, which is the use of anthropomorphic characters. Sadly, the story does fall apart near the middle once half of the villagers are jailed, cause by then it seems like the story is on fast-forward as it races towards a, surprisingly, tense action- packed finale. The ending also suffers from being classic Disney fare, UNLESS you look at the alternate ending, which actually ends the story a bit better and a better explanation pertaining to Prince John's punishment.Thankfully, the characters save this movie from being almost boring. First, you got the main man himself, Robin Hood. Portrayed as a fox, he is the prince of thieves, but not your standard thief. Instead of going for the poor, he goes for the rich to give to the poor. His design is decent for the time, though he suffers from the 'Disney Big Eye Syndrome' at times, especially when the film focuses on his face straight-on. There's also his friend and cohort, Little John, whom I'm just gonna say this, is a straight copy of Baloo from The Jungle Book in terms of both design and characteristics. Yes, I know this film does copy from the aforementioned Jungle Book and I will touch on it in a bit, but if you want to know what Little John is like, watch Baloo in that film and you'll see tons of similarities. Moving on, we got Maid Marian, who is sadly very under-used. Unlike other adaptations of the tale, here she is literally only in three scenes: The beginning where she is playing bad-mitten and kisses one of the rabbit kids, the archery scene and finally the ending. You'd think she would have a good amount of screen time, but she ends up being wasted in her role (Though, I'll give the film this: Her design does make her cute). As for the villains, they are some of the funniest villains Disney had made in a while. I like how Prince John, while ruthless, is more or less reduced to a momma's boy and when stuff doesn't go to plan, ends up sucking his thumb. His assistant Sir Hiss, though, ends up being much like Maid Marian as in being wasted potential. As for the Sheriff Of Nottingham, well, dude's a douche. I was tempted to peg him as the worst character but he is saved by one thing: His voice actor. Voiced by the late Pat Buttram, he manages to bring a bit of goofiness to the character and, at times, a bit of Mister Haney in there as well. With the rest of the characters, they're just there and somewhat forgettable, with a few having some cool moments, so there is not much to say.Like all of Disney's classic animated films, the animation here is beautiful at times. The backgrounds are a treat to look at and the characters are animated realistically but keeping their animal traits in the movement as well. But, there is a problem with the animation. The problem being is that it, well, is infamously known for copying a lot of sequences and animation cells from the previously released films 'Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs', 'The Aristocats', and 'The Jungle Book', with the most infamous scene in the film being the Dance Scene near the middle of the film. Not only are moves reused from the previous aforementioned films, but it is a shot-for-shot remake of all the dance scenes from those films. Sure, you can attribute this to a smaller budget, but they could've at least made some newer dance animation cells for this film instead of reusing so many from those films.Now let us return to a question I asked earlier: Why did I return to watch this film so many times even though I never cared for the film? Well, it wasn't because of the anthro characters, the story, nor the animation. It was because it was a Disney film that, to me, didn't feel like the usual Disney fare. Unlike their previous films, this one felt more like a live-action film then a animated film, if that makes sense. I think that's why I returned to watch it constantly. It felt like a mature Disney film then what they were known for back in the day.In conclusion, Robin Hood, while it has it faults, ranks up there as one of Disney classic animated films, I still do recommend this film to any Disney fan out there.
I've never really had any love for Disney. I don't worship at the church of the mouse or get all weepy over it's iconography. So I'm judging its early 70s take on 'Robin Hood' strictly on merit, and sadly it barely gets a passing grade.Considered one of Disney's weaker animated efforts by even the most ardent of fans, 'Robin Hood' ambles along pleasantly enough, but it never displays any sense of purpose and ultimately never builds any momentum. The humor lacks wit and often falls flat despite the best efforts of a solid voice cast. Only their talent and the animation--which looks up to the usual Disney standards despite it's reduced budget and some cost cutting recycling--manage to rise above.Disney's 'Robin Hood' has it's charms, but they're likely to be lost on the young, and grownups are likely to be too bored to even notice them.
Marked for spoilers just in case. May still be relevant despite the ageing of the story. For starters, I wish all Disney movies were like this. Like pretty much all Disney productions, this adaptation is horrendously inaccurate to its source material, that being both the original legends and the 'canonical' story dramatised by the Robin Hood: Legend of Sherwood video game. However, this movie is greatly different from the others because of the prologue. Our Narrator of sorts, Rooster!Alan-a-Dale, starts with a prologue saying basically that this movie is going to be an original work. Don't expect the source material, expect a new story fashioned out of it by Disney for their own use. That is the huge difference right there. The annoying inaccuracy and such are still there, but it's better to establish that right off the bat so we can put that aside and speak about the movie. As for the movie itself, barring canonical fidelity of course, it is a decent production. It has its low points (mainly composed of cringeworthy humour and 'eccentric' for lack of a better word bits), but for the most part it is classic Disney. Anachronistic, musical, funny, and quite memorable. One thing about Disney is that its work is memorable. Whether for good or for bad, it is always memorable. As for the story itself, it is internally consistent (mostly) and fairly amusing in itself. I don't recommend it for serious social watching, but I highly recommend it for casual enjoyment and especially for middle to low intensity class kids (the high ones are better off in the serious circles). Lastly, I raise my rating for the depiction of Friar Tuck. I'm not in favour of equality and representation and all of that, but as long as you people are at it you ought to raise the rating for having a legitimate priest in there, acting pious and zealous for the Lord.
Robin Hood is Disney's version of the classic English folktale, including multiple elements from different retellings, including King Richard being away on a Crusade, evil Prince John ruling the land with an iron fist, Maid Marian and many others. It's also one of the most successful films from the so called scratchy era of Disney when they were using the Xerox copy paste method to make their films with a smaller budget.Robin Hood succeeds because it's just so likable. The style, for one, is nicely medieval. Everything, from the opening titles to the characters to the style of music to the dialogue, hearkens back to the Dark Ages and as a whole it's one of the best medieval films Disney has ever done.Another great thing is the character cast. This is a film of many unforgettable characters, from Robin Hood himself to Little John, from the sheriff of Nottingham to Prince John, who's the perfect example of how to make a complete wimp of a villain that's still a legitimate threat, plus interesting to watch. The side characters are also excellent and as a whole they're so good that the story practically tells itself.The one problem and the reason why I didn't rate this higher, is the fact that this film is notorious for borrowing heavily from previous films. Various dance and action sequences were copy pasted directly from The Jungle Book and Snow White, among others. The character of Little John is basically just Baloo with a green shirt. Sir Hiss, Prince John's lackey, is simply just Kaa with a hat and a cape. It doesn't ruin the film, and you really can't tell if you haven't seen the films in question, but it does mean that it cannot be called a perfect film.Nevertheless, Robin Hood is a great deal of fun. It's filled with thrilling scenes, one after another, has a great character cast, some good songs and as a whole it's simply entertaining.
Robin Hood rarely features on many people's favourite Disney movies, and there's a good reason why. Disney's original concept was an adaptation of Reynard the Fox, a collection of allegorical fables from Europe. The deceptive fox was seen as an amoral leading figure for their squeaky-clean and child-friendly output, so the plan was abolished in favour of adapting a more familiar folk-tale, Robin Hood and his Merry Men. This sudden change of plan causes Robin Hood to feel almost like an afterthought, written in such a hurry that the plot seems to shift around without focus, and characters feel like abandoned first draft's of the classic Disney heroes and villains.With King Richard away fighting his crusade, the kingdom is left in the hands of his thumb-sucking, mommy's-boy younger brother Prince John (Peter Ustinov). Our narrator Allan-a-Dale (Roger Miller) informs us that the poor are being bled dry by the astronomical taxes set by the Sheriff of Nottingham (Pat Buttram), and rely on the exploits of local hero Robin Hood (Brian Bedford) and his companion Little John (Phil Harris), who routinely steal from the rich to give to the poor. Robin enters into an archery tournament dressed as a stork in the hope of winning the heart of old flame Maid Marian (Monica Evans), under the watchful eye of Prince John and his hypnotic sidekick Sir Hiss (Terry-Thomas), who want Robin's head.Despite the mediocrity of the final film, Robin Hood is certainly bolstered by the impressive array of vocal talent. Bedford provides the charming twang of an English gent and Terry-Thomas is suitably and simultaneously reptilian and hilarious, but Peter Ustinov walks away with the film - his whiny rich-boy Prince John is one the greatest characters Disney have ever created. The presence of such quality British talent makes it strange that a lot of the cast sound like cowboys who have somehow wandered into a distinctly English setting. Some sequences are recycled directly from Disney classics such as Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937) and The Jungle Book (1967), and some characters are even borrowed and simply re-named. It's an up-and- down experience, where the plot occasionally wanders and lingers without any sense of narrative, but when Bedford, Thomas and Ustinov share a scene, that familiar Disney magic re-emerges.
Robin Hood is a heroic outlaw in English folklore who, according to legend, was a highly skilled archer and swordsman. Traditionally depicted as being dressed in Lincoln green,[1] he is often portrayed as 'robbing from the rich and giving to the poor' alongside his band of Merry Men. Robin Hood became a popular folk figure in the late-medieval period, and continues to be widely represented in literature, films and television.It was a really nice Disney movie with interesting characters and some enjoyable scenes. People can perceptive differents recurring scenes, things, symbols, which have been in Snow white and the seven dwarfs,The ArostiCats, and the The Jungle Book. So this movie includes some characteristics of Disney, and it was mixed scenes of the mentioned films.
Even after all these years, this film is still in my top 5. Excellent songs, excellent plot, excellent ending! When I was little I wore out my VHS copy of this to near death, but I still have it today. The story of Robin Hood has been told time and time again, in live action, theatre, and animation. In my opinion this classic telling of the story is the best by far. There is just something so charming about depicting the characters as animals that makes them more friendly, lovable, and great story tellers themselves. This story always struck me as having that fairytale element and I feel that something like that could never be done justice in live action. Overall it is a story best told by foxes.
Sweet little Disney children's classic.Directed by Wolfgang Reitherman, who also directed The Jungle Book, 101 Dalmatians and The Aristocats, Robin Hood is one of the quintessential children's movies. Has a sweet, often funny story, with the characters portrayed by animals. Adults however, may find the plot a bit basic. Still good fun though.Where Robin Hood doesn't reach the same level of class as The Jungle Book, however, is in the music. Every song on The Jungle Book was catchy and incredibly memorable. Robin Hood's music just isn't in the same league, and feels flat and insignificant. This, despite enlisting the musical talents of Roger Miller for a few of the songs.Overall, worth the watch, no matter what your age.
The story of the legendary outlaw is portrayed with the characters as humanoid animals.This is a story well known but a film probably not often watched. Ranking the Disney cartoons best to worst, this would be lucky to end up somewhere in the middle. Not that it is all bad, but it has been overshadowed by its successors. We still get Phil Harris, Terry-Thomas and some fun characters. Not to mention the song that would inspire 'The Hamster Dance' decades later.Those from Wisconsin will be a bit surprised and excited to hear the tune of 'On Wisconsin' during a football scene. Was someone in the music department a University of Madison graduate?
This is Walt Disney's 21st full-length animated feature film, where the fox hero Robin Hood and his bear sidekick Little John set out on a daring adventure to give money to the poor residents of Sherwood Forest. In doing so, they try to outwit the greedy lion Prince John and the cold-hearted wolf, the Sheriff of Nottingham, and stop them from suppressing the poor.This movie starts off with a captivating intro where Prince John had his brother, King Richard, hypnotized so he could rule the land in his place. This all leads to Prince John being outsmarted by a disguised Robin Hood and Little John in some jewels, resulting in a widespread manhunt for the outlaw.While this film has a basic and predictable plot and is slow at certain points, the story is actually quite entertaining and imaginatively fun - especially in seeing all the animals take on the roles of a legendary human tale and trying to survive a tax assault by the unscrupulous king and his cohorts. There are some great adventures and action - great excitement for the kids. There are also some humor that even adults might find enjoyable.The animation was pretty good, not as vibrant as earlier films or in later films of the 80s and 90s, but it is serviceable. The songs by Roger Miller has a nice country and comfortable feel to it and the music score by George Bruns is top-tapping fun and intriguing. Wolfgang Reitherman did a nice job directing and Larry Clemmons and the story team gave us quite a captivating screenplay.Overall, it's an adventurous Disney movie with a predictable plot, but has that certain charm and special 'Disney touch' that the entire family would enjoy.Grade B
Many people of my generation (those who grew up in the late 80s and early 90s) light up with enthusiasm whenever Robin Hood is mentioned in a conversation about Disney films. Yet Robin Hood isn't generally regarded as one of the greats. It is a film I enjoy very much, but it has it's ups and downs with me. Robin Hood was the first Disney feature to go into production after Walt Disney's death. This was a time when the future of Disney animation was still very much in doubt, since many didn't think that the studio could go on without Walt. With Robin Hood the studio went back to its roots to the days of the Silly Symphonies. They decided to use all anthromorphic animals for the roles and type cast by animal. That for me was the appeal to the film. Prince John is one of my favorite villains. He's a lot like Captain Hook in that he's very immature and is constantly undermined. The Sheriff of Nottingham is one of the funnier yet most detestable villains. I like how they portray the love between Robin Hood and Maid Marian. The film also has egregious reuse of animation from previous films, but this was because the studio was in survival mode. The second half of the film wasn't as engaging as the first half. Maid Marian disappears until the end. The climax would have been stronger if they showed her in some sort of peril where Robin Hood would rescue her. The film probably had great appeal to children because there aren't any scary scenes like in the earlier films. While not as strong as the Disney films of the 60s, Robin Hood proved that Disney animation could go on without Walt.
'Robin Hood' is a very dull film but one that kids will no doubt enjoy. I think much of this is because kids don't think like many adults. Many adults will see the film and think 'wow....this is not nearly as good as the REALLY good Disney films like BAMBI, BEAUTY AND THE BEAST and LITTLE MERMAID'--but I cannot imagine most 6-8 year-olds thinking this way. Nor can I imagine most kids hating the music--although lines like 'Oodelally, Oodeelally Golly What a Day' are truly insipid and annoying. And, kids won't likely think 'Wow...the classic Warner Brothers film with Errol Flynn is a bazillion times better than this dull picture'--but this is clearly true. My feeling is that this film is a great way to illustrate the doldrums in which Disney Studio was in at the time. The film simply isn't in the same league as their better films.
This is animated telling of the Robin Hood story, and it's executed really well. I think it was a brilliant idea to make the characters into an animated animal form. It really does add to the more light- hearted feel of things. Robin Hood is how he should be, with his charm, wit and slyness. However the villains which include Prince John and his companions are just super incompetent, cowardly and dumb. To the point it's kind of difficult to really dislike them. Except maybe for the snake. Which does get kind of tedious after a while, because everything just seems one sided. But I guess the Disney team did the best they could with the running time and development. It's just cool to see Robin Hood all sly and mischievous while doing some rebellious tasks again Prince John and his men. Overall this is a entertaining and well made Robin Hood adaptation from Disney.8.5/10
Robin Hood the animated version is definitely one of my favorite Disney films. I first watched as a little kid and loved it and recently watched it again to find it just as entertaining. Anyone, young or old, can appreciate this film and that's about all I have to say. It's a great film that the whole family can enjoy plus it's one of those light-hearted films that just gives you a happy feeling. The voice acting is great. The comedic fight scenes are perfectly executed. This film is definitely a classic. I personally enjoyed it better than other animated films such as the lion king, which is why I'm giving an 8 out of 10
Charming Disney version of the Robin Hood tale. With animals in place of humans, of course. The voice work is great. The animation is modest but nice. The music is quite fun. I liked all of the songs, particularly the folksy country ones. It moves along at a leisurely pace. Probably better suited for teens and adults than little kids. This one doesn't have the strongest reputation. I can't help but feel it's a little under-appreciated. I watched this movie quite a bit growing up. I realize it may seem a little flat to kids who grew up in the Pixar era, but I hope they can appreciate these older Disney cartoons. They may not be as flashy as today's animated movies but they are still very entertaining, quality productions.
A very cute version of the Robin Hood tale. It's hilarious when it should be and feels very melancholy at the appropriate times. Disney did so well to capture the emotions of the characters that you can almost feel them yourself. A very comical movie.The musical numbers are good... the songs work well with the scenes and are not bad to listen to for a Disney family film. I used to try to whistle Roger Miller's 'Oo-De-Lally' to my cockatiel who in turn would try to whistle it back to me. LOL, it's quite a catchy little ballad.This is an all time favorite Disney animation for me. I loved it as a kid and I still love it today. I can still laugh every time I watch this movie or even just thinking about it I can bust-a-gut with laughter.10/10
Disney take on the Robin Hood legend in animation form with family friendly rewards aplenty.Directed and produced by Wolfgang Reitherman (Sleeping Beauty/The Jungle Book), the voice work comes from Brian Bedford (Robin Hood), Phil Harris (Little John), Monica Evans (Maid Marian), Peter Ustinov (Prince John), Terry-Thomas (Sir Hiss), Andy Devine (Friar Tuck), Roger Miller (Allan-A-Dale), Pat Buttram (Sheriff of Nottingham) and Carole Shelley (Lady Cluck).All the characters are drawn as animals, with Robin suitably given a fox make-over, plot revolves around the dastardly machinations of Prince John and the Sheriff of Nottingham. Who find themselves hindered considerably by Robin and his band of merry men. Meanwhile Robin and Marian are rekindling their romance on the sideline. It lacks the class of other Disney animation movies, with no songs of note to tap the feet to, but the action is strong (love the archery), Prince John and Sir Hiss are great comedy value, and ultimately it's a delightful retelling of an often told wonderful legend. 8/10
Robin Hood (1973)*** (out of 4)Disney's take on the classic tale isn't really considered one of their best but there's certainly a lot of very good things going for it. For starters, all of the familiar characters are perfectly brought to the animated screen and this includes Robin Hood, Prince John, Maid Marian, Little John and the Sheriff of Nottingham. I really thought all of the characters were perfectly done and the voice talents behind them really bring them to life. Robin Hood and Little John just have a wonderful comic timing together and there's no doubt that the romance between Robin and Marian feels real. Another good thing is the actual adventure that Robin goes through with his followers as they attack the villains. The ending contains a lot of fun as the good guys try to escape their jails and head for freedom. Yet, more entertaining stuff comes from the Roger Miller rooster character popping in with the musical numbers. The numbers certainly aren't the most memorable from Disney but they're entertaining enough. I think the biggest fault with the film is that there's no more laughs. Yes, there's some very funny stuff here from time to time but just not enough to where the film is a bigger entertainment. Still, there's no question that there's still plenty of magic here and it's another winner from the studio.
Many hail Robin Hood (1973) as a wronged Disney film, but it's not hard to see why it's been forgotten. The characters aren't interesting, the story is like several episodes of a cheap Saturday morning cartoon strung together, and the music is lazy. (How the uninspired 'Love' got an Academy Award nomination is beyond me.) Then there's the animation, which is among the crudest Disney ever produced for a feature. It also constantly reuses animation for earlier, better Disney films, from the groundbreaking Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937) to the then recent Jungle Book (1967).About the only interesting elements are the villains, Prince John and Sir Hiss, whose old married couple style bickering proves entertaining.Stick to the Errol Flynn Robin Hood, which is beautifully shot and will have you feeling like a kid again. This is good for nostalgia, but little else.
It seems like the same pattern governing Walt Disney's animated movies released between the 'Golden Age' (from 'Snow White' to 'Cinderella') and the 'Renaissance' (from 'The Little Mermaid' to 'Tarzan').First, they're inevitably compared with their glorious predecessors hence rarely meeting with the critics' expectations of something on the same league than 'Bambi' or 'Fantasia'. However, in their mighty magnanimousness, they reckon the entertaining value of the film and never doubt its capability to please each member of the family. And rightfully so, the film meets with popular success and becomes a box-office hit, generally throning on every year's podium. And a few decades later, the film is an instant classic.What I just described applies to 'The Jungle Book', 'The Aristocats', 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' and 'Robin Hood' is hardly an exception. The adaptation of Walter Scott's novel (or the animated remake of the Errol Flynn classic) carries the mark of that particular period where low-budgeted Disney studios recycled old footage and reused the same animation in different scenes –I thought the most blatant case was 'The Sword in the Stone' but 'Robin Hood' isn't beyond reproach either- at the end, we get a rather rudimentary approach to animation which isn't on the same vein than blah-blah-blahI stop here, because I'm bored by my own review, as if the very rationality I'm expressing was depressing both the little kid I was and the grown-up I became, as both saw the film with equals levels of excitement, fun and enthusiasm. So, if 'Robin Hood' offers a fair share of action, humor, music and romance, that anyone would expect from a Disney film, do any technical consideration matter? 'Robin Hood' has always been a cheerful legend, the iconic outlaw who stole from the rich to give to the poor is such a flamboyant, rebellious and romantic hero I could never picture him without a smile on his face, whether from Douglas Fairbanks, Errol Flynn or Disney's fox. The stroke of genius is to populate the film with anthropomorphic animals, which has never been done before, even in 'Lady and the Tramp' and 'The Jungle Book', animals were still coexisting with men.In 'Robin Hood', it's a whole medieval zoo created with the perfect animal for each character. The hero is as clever, fast, agile and intelligent as a fox, his strong and jovial friend is a bear and the victims of Prince John's tyranny are all fragile and weak animals: owls, rabbits, mice or raccoons. As for the villains, the treacherous sheriff is a wolf, the Prince, naturally is a lion but deprived from the obligatory mane as to emphasize his immaturity, his counselor is sneaky like a snake, his troop is made of elephants and rhinoceros lead by a raspy-voiced crocodile.(And now that I think about it, I noticed that the good guys are all animals from the farm or forest and the bad ones from the jungle, as if it had to show the poor habitants of Nottingham as the unfortunate preys of greedy predators (Little John is a bear but bears have sweeter tastes), as if dictatorship was the only the socialized version of the 'law of the jungle'.) It's obvious that since the creation of Mickey Mouse, Disney films could never do without animals, even 'The Sword in the Stone', which was set in the same period than 'Robin Hood' approximately, featured many sequences where Merlin and Arthur were turned ones. My guess is that it probably has to do with the wide range of animation it offers and the way animals enhance children's imagination with a great use of colors and diversity in movements drawings. This is the main appeal of 'Robin Hood' and had the film featured humans, I don't think I would have cared much about it when I first saw it at the age of 5.I remember the film was recorded from an Italian channel and I could hardly understand a word, but with this unique touch of marvel animators' magic hand bring to their film, the whole adventure excited me. As a teenager, I still loved it, and as an adult, I started to notice that the film carries many pleasantly surprising aspects.'Robin Hood' is perhaps the first film to talk about 'having children', 'marriage', some cute naughty innuendo like when a rhino whistles at a disguised Little John, waving his stocky posterior, that's not usual Disney material. Even 'God' is uttered many times and a few political matters, notably when Little John questions the morality of their actions.Sex and politics have always been forbidden themes in Disney movies, but 'Robin Hood' tackled them without hurting any sensitivity. The film is cleverly written and the dialogs' wits are highlighted by the voice-over, which is strength of the film, especially from Phil Harris who reprises his Baloo-role, and Peter Ustinov who's absolutely delightful as the royal Mama's boy, sucking his royal thumb with an irresistible baby moaning voice, or shouting 'Seize the fat one!' during one of the film's zaniest and most exciting moments when the aftermath of an archery tournament turn into a football game parody.At the risk of repeating myself, that's the stuff that family movies are made of. I myself just turned into a father and I'm looking forward to make my daughter discover the film like I did with her grandpa, that's the magic of Disney classics, their appeal is both universal and timeless. And who can't resist to that little whistle tune that open the film and reflects the cheerful mood of the story, just the thought of it erase any piece of criticism.Not that the film is flawless, it's just that the flaws don't really affect it. It's fun, full of bright colors, hilarious, catchy and 40 years after, it's a classic. 'Beauty and the Beast' might be superior, but I wonder how many Disney fans would choose it over 'Robin Hood'.
a fable. first meeting with a legendary hero. touching music. and inspired humor. a pure Disney who teach about basic values in a delicious manner. the voice of Peter Ustinov is one of most powerful memories from last part of my childhood. but, after many years, I rediscover it and the seduction - far to common magic of old fashion animation was rebirth.because , more than an amusing classic, it is a smart film. for the story itself and for the science to make the best portrait of Robin Hood before the contact with history books. for the thin slice of romance and for the unique scene of engagement. for joy and for the option for poor fox to be one of most famous couples of all periods. little more than a classic. or a classic with a huge heart.
'Robin Hood' was made at a strange transit point in animation history, long after the Golden Age of Cartoons yet still some time before the renewed interest in animation brought about by Disney, Pixar and others. Moreover, it was one of the first animated features made in the awkward period just after Walt Disney had died, a period renowned for being Disney's creative nadir.Many of the criticisms of the era can be rallied against 'Robin Hood'. The pace is off sometimes, and the plot itself isn't very cohesive (then again, the original legend is essentially a cycle of various stories and episodes). Many of the characters look like carbon copies of designs from earlier Disney films, and indeed whole sequences feature animation re-used from productions as far back as 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs'.Yet for all that's going against it, 'Robin Hood' strangely seems to work. For one thing, it has a sheer charm and spirit to it that few films can boast, and the strong appeal of the original source material arguably helps as well. In addition to it generally being a fun film, it has some good songs, including the soothing ballads 'Love' and 'Not in Nottingham' and the catchy 'Oo-de-Lally' and 'Whistle Stop'. While it can't be classed as highly as the likes of 'Snow White', 'Pinocchio' and 'Beauty and the Beast', 'Robin Hood' is definitely worth a watch.
'Robin Hood' 40th Anniversary Edition Blu-ray Brings the Classic Home in Hi-Def Robin Hood (a fox) and his merry band of animals steal from the rich and give to the poor. It just so happens that most of the riches come from the greedy paws of Prince John (a lion). He constantly has his henchman, the Sheriff of Nottingham (a wolf), collect taxes from the poor animals of Sherwood Forest to line his own pockets. Even though Robin is wanted by Prince John and the Sheriff of Nottingham, he risks his life to enter an archery contest and win the hand of Maid Marion (a vixen).This classic has everything we've come to expect from a Disney movie. Basically, it's filled with talking animals in the roles of characters dancing and singing merrily. I'm not a huge fan of musicals, but the story in between more than makes up for the moments I sit waiting for the crooning to end.Much like 'The Aristocats' was a product of its jazz and big-band cultural surroundings in 1970, 'Robin Hood' features a soundtrack influenced by the folk artists of that same period. It fits the atmosphere of the movie perfectly. There's no doubt children and fans of Gordon Lightfoot, Peter, Paul and Mary, and other singer-songwriters will be delighted.
For most kids these days, their introduction to Robin Hood is through this Disney animated classic. All subsequent Robin Hood movies are measured against this one, and no number of misguided revisions of the legend can diminish the charm of this cartoon.'Robin Hood' was released in an overlooked period of Disney animation, long after 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' and 'Dumbo,' and long before 'The Little Mermaid' and 'The Lion King.' 'Robin Hood' doesn't really live up to the earlier classics, nor is it as good as the more recent films. But as a minor Disney classic, it is still a charming movie.Allan-a-Dale, a lute-strumming rooster, informs us that this is the legend as it is told in the Animal Kingdom, which is basically the same as the Human Kingdom's version, except with animals. It contains familiar Robin Hood legends, such as the archery tournament, although sometimes with a twist. For example, Robin Hood must rescue Friar Tuck from hanging rather than Will Stutely.True to other Disney cartoons, the songs and animation are cute. You will have a hard time resisting the urge to smile hearing the opening song. Oscar winner Peter Ustinov (Stanley Kubrick's 'Spartacus') is especially good as the voice of Prince John.However, while the film is relatively short (83 minutes), the story seems to drag after the one-hour mark because the movie doesn't follow the typical rhythm that has been culturally ingrained in our minds. After the archery tournament and ensuring madcap action sequence one hour into the movie, most of the conflicts up to that point have been resolved. The film comes up with a second conflict for the last 20-some minutes. The short movie had a hard time retaining my attention during the final act.The movie also had some historical inaccuracies that were laughable for anyone familiar with medieval English history. In one song bashing Prince John, they said that he will not be remembered for the laws he passed, but rather for being the phony king of England. John is remembered today for passing (under duress) the Magna Carta, an early forerunner to the Constitution. Prince John is cursed throughout the film for imposing crushing taxes, considered by all to be unjust since only the true king, Richard the Lionheart (literally a lion in the cartoon), has the right to tax the people. The film conveniently fails to mention that Prince John had to raise taxes to pay for King Richard's crusade. King Richard eventually returns and arrests Prince John, so he can never harm the English people again. An epilogue pointing out that John would reign as the king of England for 17 years after Richard would have been warranted.But expecting historical accuracy from a Disney film is like expecting gourmet food from McDonald's, so that isn't a major criticism. (One joke I heard around the time James Cameron's 'Titanic' was released was that if Disney had made 'Titanic,' not only would Leonardo DiCaprio have lived, but he would have prevented the ship from sinking.)'Robin Hood' is nevertheless a satisfying introduction to the culturally significant legend that will appeal to Disney's intended audience.
This was first film that was completely done after Walt Disney's death (it was approved, produced, and released after his death, unlike his predecessors). While this film was a modest success, at this point it was clear that animated films were not the company's strong point.This film practically your typical Robin Hood story, with Anamorphic animals. Robin Hood and Little John rob for the poor and from the rich. Robin Hood and Maid Marian are in love with each other. The ruler taxed his people to the point that they are in poverty. Will Robin Hood get caught robbing?The characters in this movie are bey black and white. Robin Hood is the generic hero, Maid Marian is the generic maiden, Little John is the generic goofy best friend. The tiger ruler (forgot his name) is the most interesting character in the film, as he is a whiny, lazy brat, but also extremely threatening. All the other side characters are not that memorable.The songs in this movie are....decent? Thy are not memorable, except for the love song 'Love' which is a good love song. The rest sound like a bunch of random noise that is trying to mix British and Country music.The animation is not good at all. The Xerography is not used well at all, and this movie has the most borrowed animation (tracing back to Cinderella and The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr Toad). The entire dance scene is borrowed from films like The Aristocats, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, and The Jungle Book. The film is just not appealing to the eye.To put it bluntly, this film is a mess. Bad animation and soundtrack, generic characters, and a good plot that is not executed well. There are some filler scenes that just drag on and on. What does somewhat save this film is the fun and charm that it has, and even that could not save the film. The company's magic continued to diminish with this movie.
Again Robin Hood and his Merry Men but this time they are a menagerie! The story of the legendary outlaw is portrayed with the characters as humanoid animals . Classic version based on the legendary character with exciting adventures , breathtaking animated battles and load of action and romance . Greatest adventure of the centuries ¡ , greatest thrill of the screen ¡ an adventure the world has thrilled to for centuries , in a picture it will never forget . He lives again , a hero of every villain , friend to those who have friends . In 13th century England , dashing Robin (voice of Brian Bedford ,Tommy Steele was the original choice to perform the voice of the title character, but he was dropped shortly after recording sessions began) and his band of marauders confront general oppression and corruption of wicked Sheriff Nottingham (a wolf ,was originally a goat and voice by Buttram) , leading an uprising against the crown that will forever alter the balance of world power , foiling evil Prince John . When the Norman Lords begin oppressing the Saxon masses in King Richard's absence , a Saxon archer named Robin Hood fights back as the outlaw leader of a rebel guerrilla army . The legendary Sherwood forest's hero Robin Locksly again and Lady Marian (lovely Maid Olivia De Havilland) along with his Merrie men brought by him : Friar Tuck (voice by Andy Devine) and Little John (voice by Phil Harris). Robin Hood (a fox) , Little John (a brown bear) and Friar Tuck (originally, was to be a pig, but was changed to a badger to avoid insulting religious sensibilities) cleverly revolt against over-taxation carried out by the king John Without Land and other royal men. Robin wins the heart of royal ward Marian (a vixen with voice of Monica Evans) . While there is organized an archery tournament held by Prince John, with the winner receiving a kiss from Maid Marian . This cartoon/swashbuckler has great animated sequences well staged with stylish and vitality , adventure , romance , outstanding final dueling and is pretty entertaining . An imaginative and jolly Disney adaptation of the Robin Hood legend with brilliant drawings and catching score by George Bruns . There are great songs , enjoyable action sequences in forests and castle , including amusing ending confrontation at the climax of the film .Initially, the studio considered a movie about the European fable, Reynard the Fox. However, due to Walt Disney's concern that Reynard was an unsuitable choice for a hero, Ken Anderson used many elements from it in Robin Hood. Robin Hood, also known Robin O'Locksley and the Earl of Huntingdom, is probably and sadly a creation of romantic imaginations . The motion picture was well directed by Wolfgand Reitherman , a good craftsman from Disney factory .He often animated fast action sequences or dances , and known for 're-using' animation from older films and placing them in newer films . He co-directed several Disney movies such as Aristocats , Jungle Book , 101 Dalmatians , Peter Pan , Cinderella , Dumbo , among others .The story is indirectly based on historic events and is developed after third Crusade when Richard Lion Heart abandoned Holy Land . If Robin Hood did exist, it's almost certain that he was not a Saxon , though his enemies may well have been the Norman sheriff of Nottinghan and Prince and later king John Lackland.In route England Richard was captured by Leopold II of Austria and ransomed by his own subjects . But Richard returns England to put down a revolt against him though his brother John without Land takes over the kingdom with his underling evil Sheriff of Nottingham . Though Richard eventually returned from battle and foiled John's rebellion, John eventually became king anyway after Richard's untimely death (1199) in battle without an heir. Queen Eleanor supported John against rival claimants until her death in 1204. Other versions about this famous personage are the following : the classical (1936) ¨The Adventures of Robin Hood ¨ by Michel Curtiz with Errol Flynn , Olivia De Havilland , Basil Rathbone , Alan Hale , ¨Robin Hood and his Merrie men ¨(1952) by Ken Annakin with Richard Todd and Peter Finch ; ¨Sword of Sherwood Forest (1960) by Terence Young with Richard Greene , Richard Pasco and Peter Cushing ; ¨Robin Hood price of thieves (1991) ¨ by Kevin Reynolds with Kevin Costner , Alan Rickman and Morgan Freenan , the same year was exhibited ¨Robin Hood¨ by John Irvin with Patrick Bergin and Uma Thurman but was a flop though the critics considered best adaptation . Furthermore , recent and revisionist version titled ¨Robin Hood¨(2010) by Ridley Scott with Russell Crowe , Cate Blanchet and Oscar Isaac .
Okay, I have to admit that I haven't seen many films about Robin Hood in my entire life, but I consider this one to be the most entertaining and enjoyable version of this same story, despite all the obvious liberties that could be expected from a Disney movie.The animation was quite good, with very cute and appealing designs.All the character from this movie were very likable, the gags were funny, the songs were catchyActually, I think that every single aspect from this movie was quite charming and well, having all the necessary elements to be considered a classic for the whole family.In my opinion, this is the most underrated Disney film, deserving much more appreciation and recognition.
OK so it was done on the cheap, taking many scenes from other Disney movies but still it's a great movie.The animation is a bit rough and ready because Disney was on a cost cutting exercise. Don't expect a polished finish like The Jungle Book but more like a straight to TV film.It must be said however that this is one of my favorite Disnesy films. It has a happy feel with catchy songs, great characters and a solid story.It's a real shame that Disney made this on a budget because if they spent their usual budget it would be one of their Classics! Top notch fun!
I have made a point now to watch/re-watch(a few) all the early/artistry-based Disney animation features, 'as this had been oft-described as the best overall animation ever produced. I have been astounded at how bad the drawing-paint looks in only one early Disney feature('Alice in Wonderland'): it looks and plays as hollow. I have been newly informed and hugely impressed by the unfamiliar title of 'Sword and the Stone', which is an excellent film start to finish.'Robin Hood' stands apart/alone as almost perfect among the lot, starting with 'Snow White' and ending with 'Rescuers'; I am not huge on the love-song(though I'll guess, for some, this is a highlight)...and still this film so impresses, from story-development, to look, to specific art in standout scenes/images: one is inspired with awe. 'An amazing presentation, the pinnacle of art-driven animation(versus cgi), and this will never be matched again.This film is a must see for all ages, and inspires on so many levels, from love to politics...all people should be persuaded to take this cinema experience to heart.
Personally, this is my favorite out of the other classic Disney films. The last time I have watched this was 6 years ago, and I still remember it even after all these years. It's Robin Hood played by a fox, with great music and fun characters. This is one of those movies you watch and love, and still love even after a couple of years. This is a film with not much drama in it and there's no need to over-analyze anything because it's the way it is. It's light and you watch it for the fun of it. All I can say is, this movie is worth watching. You will definitely enjoy yourself. This movie might be a cartoon, but that doesn't mean adults won't like it. It's a movie for everyone.
Robin Hood is one of the better Disney films to have been right around a few years after Walt's passing and it doesn't seem any different than if Walt had been in the studio with his animators. Robin Hood has lovable characters, funny characters, and villains you either love to hate or love to love. I personally just love Prince John and how he acts tough and clever yet put him in peril and he runs away like a coward. His sidekick Sir Hiss is even smarter than he is and yet they both seem to be the perfect villain and apprentice. The Sheriff of Nottingham was probably not as likable but he also fits the perfect villain as well.Robin Hood also doesn't run too long and should be a hit with parents who don't want to sit around and be bored. No annoying songs except maybe the 'Love' song but other than that the songs are easy to relate to with the movie. This isn't one of the best Disney films but it is like finding a diamond in the rough.
Robin Hood, in terms of quality, is a very peculiar film. One thing is for sure, it has a boatload of problems that are both blatant and prominent. The animation is flat, many elements are recycled from earlier Disney films, the story is fragmented, Robin and Marian's relationship is given little establishment or development, the run time is waaaaaay too short and Robin doesn't get nearly enough screen time. All these problems are the essential formula for a sad excuse for a movie. That being said, I love this film. I love everything about it. I love the atmosphere. I love the characters. I love the humor. There is something about Robin Hood that just works; the question is what and how. Here's what I think: Disney's version of Robin Hood is not so much an adaptation of the legend, but a parody. A large majority of the characters are given large alterations, other than being anthropomorphic animals. The biggest example is the villain Prince John. The powerful, greedy tyrant is portrayed as a cowardly crybaby that can't overcome issues from his childhood. The Sheriff of Nottingham, a corrupted brute is portrayed as an obese, bumbling oaf. Friar Tuck, despite being a preacher has some traits one would hardly expect of a man of the church. The effect is hilarious. The entire cast has a lot of energy and make for some strong entertainment. Only Robin Hood himself is a somewhat accurate reflection of his legendary counterpart. But violence is substituted with a clamor for disguise. The cast and humor is aided through some very impressive and witty writing. This creates an incredible atmosphere of charm, whimsy and fun. It comes off as overwhelmingly campy, but it's supposed to be. The film says right from the get-go, 'this is our version and we're going to have fun with it.' Robin Hood has a smile on his face the entire movie, and his mood reflects on the audience. The effect is strange in that most of the films' problems actually work towards its advantage. The lackluster animation gives the movie a down to earth and rustic feel, appropriate for the setting and events. The recycled bits (due to budget cuts during the film's production) come off as a tribute to earlier Disney films and a mild nostalgia trip. Robin and Marian's rather prompt relationship works in a sense. We knew before the film started that Robin and Marian would fall in love, so why waste time with the tedious buildup. The flaws certainly glare once the film is over, but completely melt away when it's playing, even on repeated viewings. I've always believed that a film's actual quality is much more important than its likability and entertainment value. But for Robin Hood I think I'll make an exception. I'd go so far as to call Robin Hood a guilty pleasure, but I don't feel guilty at all.
Although I liked the concept of an outlaw stealing from the rich to help the poor the story of Robin Hood never did much to me. I found all the movie adaptations pretty rough and uninteresting, but that's how it was in those times. Disney however made this story into something more fun to watch. There are no humans in this animation but all the characters from the story are played by animals. Robin Hood and Maid Marianne are foxes, little John is a bear and prince John is a lion just to name a few. They are all humanized however and can talk. Humanized animals is a concept that often causes for fun scenes and this movie is nothing short of that. The funniest scenes in my opinion are between the Sheriff of Nottingham and his stupid guards, and not to forget the big fight at the tournament with Lady Cluck simulating some kind of rugby game. Yes Prince John is mean and cruel but he is also naive, childish (thumb-sucking) which makes him laughable. This is surely one to watch over and over again. I don't think this movie would have turned out that well had it been humans playing the characters.
I just love these classics! Disney used to be a great company with fun shows, and in this case the cartoons were great, entertaining, had a moral to them, made you laugh, made you cry, made you smile. Here's a classic I just got through watching and sure enough, I enjoyed it. Cried here, laughed there. It was very entertaining.I am sadden by the way Disney makes their films these days. Most of the time, it's junk. Which is why a story like this makes me appreciate the good old days.I rate this 9/10 because I think it's a perfect example of a classic cartoon movie with a good story, good characters, wonderful music, great comedy, and perfect romance. :)
man. was this film intended to be so much like Richard Scarry? if it wasn't, then the resemblance to the works of Richard Scarry is extraordinarily similar. this really does seem like Disney adapting Richard Scarry.that's just fine with me. i love Disney and i have a lot of respect for Richard Scarry's anthropomorphic creations. Richard Scarry delighted me as a child and still does, although i find the books to be aimed at very small children so i don't read em anymore. but i still dig Disney as an adult so i find this combination of Scarry and Disney to be a delightful blast of fun.'Robin Hood' is also one of Disney's best cartoon features for the toddler set. most all of Disney's cartoon features aim at acceptance from an older more mature audience, 'Robin Hood' doesn't seem particularly concerned with adult appeal. that's just fine and that's also what i like best about it. it requires less involved thought then the other Disney films and has far less ambitious and lofty pretensions. not every work of fun or entertainment has to be 'high culture' or serious 'art'. this is one of Disney's most 'laid back' films animated or live action, and definitely one of Disney's least pretentious. which is saying a lot because on a whole, Disney is not very pretentious. Disney is a art form that is made to appeal to middle America and it's traditional values.i was really surprised and appalled to read that some people actually thought the detailed, full animation in this was terrible or shoddy. even some viewers liked the film but thought the animation was bad. so much for pearls before idiots. this is not a matter of opinion. if you think this is poorly animated you know nothing about the art of hand drawn animation. not only was a lot of time, care and money lavished on this feature, there is so much nuance and detail to the animation, especially in the prison escape sequence toward the end. if you can't identify or see the detail then you are obviously in too much of a hurry and not paying attention or using your brain. saying the animation here is poor is just plain stupid and unfair. use your eyes and brains folks.Disney's 'Robin Hood' doesn't even warrant or elicit that kind of judgmental criticism in the first place. it's not exactly a film that is mired in self importance. Disney's 'Robin Hood' cartoon is a very easy going experience and should be taken as such. it doesn't have that kind of ambition or reaches that far as to be taken too seriously. and the wonderful hand drawn animation reflects it's simplicity as entertainment. anyone too critical is trying to make too much out of this and perceive this as something it's not. if you try to make too much out of this charming little film you've gone over the deep end and you need to get a real life.Disney's cartoon feature of 'Robin Hood' is a cute and charming little film with terrific animation and character vocals by some fine and engaging actors. it also boast some catchy and memorable music by Roger Miller. the whole film is a total delight from beginning to end and very Disneyish.i feel sorry for the people who were too overly critical of the animation and this film. how can you be critical of something as simplistic as this? being too critical or having a problem with this film is, well, sort of 'Scarry'.
Robin Hood (1973) A classic cartoon made from a classic story.Robin Hood is a little slower than cartoons now days but it's still very entertaining. It's, in my opinion, one of the most memorable Disney films of all time.It's a little different than most versions of Robin Hood but I think it had to be since it's Disney. The main story is still there and it's great, although I think the main reason its child friendly and liked is because all the characters are animals. Unlike Oliver and Company where the story of Oliver Twist is changed to be about cats, Robin Hood is played by animals and could have been people, which I think makes it less appealing in some aspects.The fox Robin Hood was one of my favorite characters growing up. I also still think that Prince John and Sir Hiss are hilarious. One of my other favorite parts of the film is the narrating and soundtrack of Roger Miller. It is definitely a cartoon you watch for the story more than the comedy, like Snow White or Cinderella.The film however does move a little slow at times. I think most cartoons now are much more active and funny than they used to so I feel some kids now days won't be as into it as kids were in the 70s and 80s. This Robin Hood is still a great version; I just feel it might be appreciated more by a slightly older audience than most cartoons.8/10
I don't like this movie.I'm not alone in my distaste for Robin Hood. During its making, whispers spread among the staff (Ward Kimball and director Wolfgang Reitherman at least are recorded as complaining to each other). This, to me, is the absolute nadir of finance driven animated trash, akin to a Shrek sequel in artistry. To its credit, though, it is handled by master animators and designers, but this is hindered by the fact that every good piece of animation has to be reused once more to save time.As a Robin Hood adaptation, this one is quite far from its source material. Rather than the legendary folk hero, we get a pussified interpretation who dresses up in drag rather than resort to heroics and trots about carelessly so that he and Phil Harris are easily ambushed by a troop of run cycles. Did I mention cycles? Anyway, Peter Ustinov at least lends some comic voice acting to Prince John, but he doesn't exactly make for much of a villain. Phil Harris plays Baloo as Little John, and three films with Baloo is a bit much for me. Sir Hiss is Kaa...and that's all anyone can say. Maid Marion and her faithful steward Bess...I mean 'Clucky'...are basically useless and oblivious to what's going on around them. Pat Buttram's kind of enjoyable as the Sheriff, but, again, it's hard to take any of these villains seriously on any level when they're all played for cheap laughs. None of the characters endear much, and at least half are basically reused characters from past Disney projects.As for the plot...there is no plot.Instead, we get an aimless series of episodes that advance nothing and provide nothing but cheap, largely unfunny gags. One finds it hard to thrill over Robin Hood garbed in drag when we want to see him doing something masculine and likable. The party sequence in the middle is a masterpiece of suck, tethering together reused animation from The Aristocats, Snow White, and The Jungle Book while basically wasting the audience's time with a lousy song that I can't even recall at the moment. Wrapping it all up is a bit of exposition that essentially skips over the climax of the story, like a final insult to its stupid, stupid audience that will buy into anything with the Disney name.Moving on to animation, this film features all the masters of the last few films, who normally elevate even mediocre material like The Aristocats, and they do contribute a few impressive pieces to this. Milt Kahl does a fun and technically tricky bit with the Sheriff where he bounces down the street in perspective in a very characterized way. The problem is that it proceeds to be reused TWICE. Unfortunately, the rest of the animation is so occupied by walk cycles and reused animation and COPIED animation from films past that whatever virtues are contained wear out their welcome and good pieces are harder to come by.To be fair, the design values aside from the budget cheating are solid, and even with the appalling number of shortcuts the animation is never any less than well crafted otherwise. But what's the takeway? No breakthroughs are made on a technological or artistic level, no characters stand out, no scenes make an impression, and I swear the only bits I can remember are the thumb sucking and the fact that Robin Hood's anthropomorphized character design kind of looks like the primary inspiration for 'furries' (do NOT look that term up).I've heard from a few folks who worked on this, and have never, in my entire life, heard any of them say they were proud of it. The thing's a cynical sucker punch to anyone who enjoys Disney films, a cesspool of mediocrity and disrespect that doesn't even think its supporters are worth giving competent production values. Yogi Bear and The Flintstones are more exciting to me. Heavy Traffic from the same year also took shortcuts, but out of necessity rather than greed, and actually managed to be an excellent film where its rough animation worked for its themes. I'm not against cheap animation, and think such limitations can actually lead to some of the most interesting animation around when the people involved are putting their all into wrangling descent expressiveness and motion out of their material.But Robin Hood is just half-assed. Usually, The Black Cauldron is brought up when discussing bad Disney movies, but that film had something called originality to some extent in the context of Disney's work. Robin Hood is, for lack of a better term, animated inbreeding.
I saw this version of _Robin Hood_ when I was a very young child. I liked it so much, my parents bought the soundtrack album, and they seldom did that. It's fun and lighthearted, and like most Disney animated features of that time, very safe for kids. It's arguably not a classic, but it's well worth seeking.All of the characters of the Robin Hood mythos are present: Robin (a fox), Maid Marian (ditto), Little John (a bear), Alan-a-Dale (rooster), Friar Tuck (a badger), King John (lion), the Sheriff of Nottingham (a coyote/wolf?), and many more. The comedic interplay is great, and the music is highly enjoyable.
Over the last 40 years, there have been a number of adaptations of the Robin Hood legend, but the animated feature from Disney is the most unique of the bunch since it features the characters such as Robin, Maid Marian, Friar Tuck and Alan-a-Dale as animals. The one character that's new to the Disney version was Sir Hiss, a snake voiced by Terry-Thomas.I remember seeing this movie when I was 12 and really liked it. One thing I remember is that Alan-a-Dale was a rooster and voiced by Roger Miller, who wrote and sung three of the movie's songs. Miller was part of an outstanding voice cast besides Thomas that included Brian Bedford, Phil Harris, Peter Ustinov, Pat Buttram, and two actresses who played the Pigeon Sisters on The Odd Couple, Monica Evans and Carole Shelley.If you haven't seen the Disney version of Robin Hood, rent it. Just like the title of one of Roger Miller's songs, it will make you say 'Oo-De-Lally.'
Could Disney ever do wrong during their golden age? As far as their adaption of Robin Hood goes, not likely. This is an absolute gem of a film, both well-written, animated, cast and presented. It takes what is already a well-known tale and adds a real depth to it. The ageless story is presented (and the movie itself acknowledges it, to my delight) in an animal kingdom form. It follows the quest of outlaw Robin Hood as he robs from the rich and gives to the poor under the nose of tyrannical Prince John and the Sheriff of Nottingham. With a little help from his friends - amongst them Little John - he just might save them from the evil lion's tyranny. But of course it's not so easy - nor is his quest for the hand of the fair Maid Marian.The animation in this movie is absolutely delicious. In the leading hands of such geniuses as Milt Kahl, Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston, I'm not surprised. The old-fashioned Disney style (pencil strokes quite evident) never fails to inspire me, and in fact is at its absolute height here, in my opinion. The character design and animation is all spot-on - Robin is a foxy fox, Little John is a not-at-all-little bear, Prince John is a lion, the Sheriff of Nottingham is an overweight wolf, Sir Hiss is a snake, the royal guards are rhinos and Prince John's squire is a crocodile. All these diverse characters are impeccably believable and entrancing to behold. Both Little John and Sir Hiss might be considered extensions of Baloo and Kaa in the Jungle Book (indeed, both retain their respective voice actors). However, this is only a passing reference, as both characters are strong enough to stand alone (not to mention is Little John more of a straight-man than Baloo, and much more responsible).For the animation itself as well as the whole animal setting, I'd say 5 stars are nowhere NEAR enough. The story is also fabulously written. Believabilty of the characters is stronger than in any Robin Hood incarnation that I've ever seen. You totally feel the despair of the poor people, and absolute hatred for Prince John and the Sheriff of Nottingham - in fact the latter is the character I personally love to loathe.However, while the story itself is quite strong, the ending is very disappointing to me. If you don't want me to spoil it for you, I strongly suggest you skip the rest of this paragraph. After a heist and a breakout of the royal jail conducted by Robin and Little John, the scene fades away from Prince John's frustration. Then when we take off again, King Richard has returned and our rooster narrator/folk singer says that 'he sort of straightened everything out.' Given the strong character- and story-build-up, this is NOT something I wanted to hear! The 'show, don't tell' rule that Disney were so good at following is broken here, to my immense frustration. Sure, we see the evil cronies in chains. But given all the loathsome things they do during the course of this film, I wanted to see them humiliated for all to see! By King Richard as well as the rest of the bunch. His return should have been emphasised much better, as a kind of symbol for the people that the bad days will end. The ending, as such, feels like a real anticlimax.But despite the disappointing ending, the movie itself is a quite impeccable visual work - fluid and eye-candyish 2-d animation with more charm than today's CGI-ridden features can even hope to achieve. Disney's Robin Hood signifies, to me, what animation is all about. And despite my faults with the ending, it remains one of my favourite films of all time - and a film which inspires me in my ambition to become an animator myself. Bravo and thank you for the marvellous job, Disney!
Here we have the second film in what I consider the 'bleak years' of the Disney canon that while doing everything I abhor in animation, still manages to make me like it all the more. I cannot bring myself to love it, but actually liking a film from this period says a whole lot.I am a Robin Hood junkie. I have watched nearly every adaption available and it does take more than turning my hero into a fox (very sly- bravo Disney!) to deter me from this ageless story. More specifically, it takes Kevin Costner. I can't say this really improves upon the story to make everyone talking animals, but at least it doesn't make everything thoroughly unpleasant. In fact nothing really can kill it: the anachronistic folk-country music, dodgy American casting, the stupid XEROX outlines (yes, even I am getting tired of harping on it), the massive loads of recycled animation not only from within the film but icons of previous films, or the overall laziness this film was apparently treated with based on the assumption that when you market to kids, quality no longer matters. Do you know no shame, post-Walt production team???And it probably comes down to personal opinion, but mashed all together this stuff just works. Peter Ustinov and Terry-Thomas as Prince John and Hiss make the lamest of Disney villains into some of the most watchable- rather than fearing them, you just want them to go on to see what will come next. I also admittedly enjoyed Brian Bedford as Robin and though the casting of jazzy American Phil Harris as Balo- errr, I mean Little John should be bothersome- who can really help but adore Phil Harris?The music is hopelessly out of tune with the setting of the movie, and even with itself from song to song- how in the world does Love end up right next to The Phony King of England?- but blast my ears if I don't love it anyways.So even after telling myself there is no possible reason to or way I could like this Robin Hood, I do. It throws all the conventions of how to make a proper animated feature out the window and then proceeds to spit on them. Yet all this roguish thumbing of the nose only further endears this outlawed film to my heart.Quote of the Film:Taxes! Taxes! Beautiful, lovely taxes! Ah-hah! Ah-hah!
It was perhaps inevitable for the Walt Disney Studios to make an antropomorphic animated feature out of the adventures of the legendary Sherwood Forest outlaw, yet rather superfluous considering their own superior 1952 live-action rendition (with which I also intend to re-acquaint myself this Christmas – particularly in view of star Richard Todd's recent passing). In spite of the film's somewhat maligned reputation as the unit's least effort from the 1970s, I used to like this one as a kid and, to be fair, it remains eminently watchable (if hardly stimulating) even now – thanks largely to the enthusiastic voice 'performances' of Peter Ustinov as Prince John (depicted as a lion and, amusingly, a mama's boy!) and Terry-Thomas as his reptilian (thus a snake, appropriately named Sir Hiss) but long-suffering sidekick/patsy. In typical Disney fashion, however, the obligatory romance is a drag (while also throwing in a bit of 'child' interest); similarly, the oppression of Prince John's rule is treated with excessive sentimentality. That said, Robin (in the guise of a fox) is suitably wily when dealing with John, Hiss and the Sheriff Of Nottingham (appearing in the form of a wolf) – notably when he robs the royal carriage (dressed up as a gypsy), the famed archery contest (with his features hidden under a stork's countenance) and the finale in which the Prince's income is pinched en masse and swung along ropes from his balcony. As for the 'Merrie Men', Little John is a bear (voiced by Phil Harris, in a virtual reprise of his Baloo characterization from THE JUNGLE BOOK [1967] – the film, in fact, feels closest to this one in style and approach), Friar Tuck a badger (dialogue spoken by Andy Devine) and Allen-a-Dale a crooning rooster who also acts as Chrous to the proceedings. Incidentally, though an icky love song (unimaginatively called 'Love') may have been intended as the musical centerpiece here, Little John's bouncy 'The Phony King Of England' and Allen-a-Dale's wistful 'Not In Nottingham' are actually much more rewarding numbers.
Robin Hood mayn't have the direct charm or the memorable songs of the later Disney movies, but it is solid entertainment nonetheless. The animation is generally lovely, if slightly archaic which is a style I kind of like, but the story sometimes fails to engage being fairly episodic but this is only occasionally. But the action highlight was the archery contest, which was so funny, as was the witty and delightful script. The songs are not as memorable as the ones in Beauty and the Beast, but they are still lovely. 'Love' is a beautiful song, but my favourite was 'Phony King of England' because of the funny lyrics. The only song I didn't like as such was the rather annoying song in the opening credits, which were a bit long. As for the characters, I loved the fact, the animators made the legendary characters animals. The best ones were Prince John and Sir Hiss, who were an absolutely hilarious double act, especially when Prince John sucks his thumb, the only villain to do that. Peter Ustinov and Terry Thomas were superb supplying the voice overs. Robin and Little John were also entertaining, as well as the Sheriff of Nottingham. Casting Phil Harris as Little John was genius, after his incredible voice-over as Baloo in the Jungle Book. I particularly loved the line 'I'm Sir Reginald, duke of Chutney'. I know in some scenes, they looked as though they were running out of ideas, but they weren't. They were just looking for a bit of inspiration. In conclusion, a really entertaining animation, that couldn't really live up to the Jungle Book. 8/10 Bethany Cox
The song about Prince John is a cleaned up version of an old English Drinking song called 'The Bastard King of England'.'Oh the English Sing Of and English King Of Many Long Years Ago. Who Ruled his Land With and Iron Hand Tho' his morals were Weak and Low. His Only Outer Garment Was a Dirty Yellow Shirt. With which he tried to hide his hide but he couldn't hide the Dirt. He was Dirty and Lousy and Full of Fleas. But he had his Women by Twos and Threes. God bless The Bastard King Of Eng-a-laaand.'The following verses are too raunchy to print here.Look for Info on an Oscar Brand for more bawdy songs.
Robin Hood and Little John fight the forces of the Sheriff of Nottingham and Prince John and help feed the poor.Walt Disney is quite possibly the greatest story teller of all time. Not only do his animated pictures excite and entertain us, they all have an encoded message that preaches towards its family audience. From the being in the right place Jungle Book to the circle of life in the Lion King Walt has become legendary.This 1973 animation has an equally impressive story and message as his previous releases with a memorable score and riveting narrative.Retelling the infamous story of outlaw Robin Hood and his adventures in Sherwood Forest, this adaptation isn't afraid to go political for its message. We see a strong issue driven narrative that sees the greedy Prince John take from the poor to feed his wealthy life and the torments that the poor residents go through is almost tear worthy.Although being very political and issue driven, the film is not without entertainment and fun value.Seeing Robin Hood dress up in humorous disguises such as a gypsy, a stalk and a vulture will have the kids engaged to the narrative. The fact that the characters are all animals makes the film easy to view and appreciate without taking away the importance of its preaching politics.The humour is a fantastic advice to portray the personalities of the characters such as Prince John's baby sequences and Lady Kluck's ambitious and forceful antics, watch out for the football parody, one scene which never fails to steal the moment.Being Disney and an animation, this is a great introduction into the life of the poor and rich which children should really appreciate.Simple and with enough information to contain this is a gateway to a better understanding of grown up issues for the younger viewer.The animation is as usual top notch from Disney but story aside the element which steals the limelight is the beautifully written score.Combining so well with what is happening on screen; Robin Hood finds the right mood at the right time to make it believable and equally enjoyable.Not as strong as Jungle Book or Lion King per say but there is nothing to be faulted.
Just saw this movie for the first time this year and rewatched it the other day. The first time I saw it, I thought it was utterly brilliant. The second time? Utterly brilliant. One of the few films that remains just as excellent on rewatch and possibly even gets better.I'm shocked and disconcerted to hear it's considered by some to be one of the worst classic Disney films. If this movie is an really an example of Disney when it's being half-assed, then I wish it would half-ass its movies more often, because the result of their supposed insouciance is a wonderful, delightful, and perfect movie, an extremely charming, fun, and well-written interpretation of 'Robin Hood'.I think one thing that seems to throw some people off about it is that it's not like any Disney movie that came before it. To me, that's part of what makes it so fantastic. Many of the jokes and scenes are ones I wouldn't expect to see from a Disney movie, and it seemed like this was the first Disney movie that wasn't afraid of taking a few risks with its characters, jokes, tone, structure, et cetera. And the risks they took with comedy stand the test of time; the jokes in this movie are not dated or forced in the slightest.The lack of an overarching plot was another thing I love about the movie. It all flowed very well and sucked me into the world of Nottingham, as the narrative depicted a time period in the lives of the denizens. Instead of offering a formulaic, beginning-middle-end type of plot, it offered several episodes of different events in Nottingham, each intriguing and engaging.These episodes also balanced each other out quite well in tone; we got to see both the carefree, down-to-earth moments and the darker plights of all the characters, making the whole movie feel very well-rounded and very real. It wasn't as if the movie portrayed everything in black-and-white. There were shades of happiness in the sadness, and it was great to see the characters sometimes be able to forget about their struggles for the time being and just live in the moment. The happy moments made me feel happy and free, and the sadder moments touched me. The emotion was handled in a very rare way: it was subtle and understated, executed perfectly, not overdone, not forced, and not unconvincing.While this lighthearted yet dark, exciting, and yet down-to-earth tone and the sporadic structure were two things I really love about the movie, I think its strongest point lies in its characters. They were not cookie-cut-outs of their traditional roles and were subtly multifaceted. Robin Hood himself was not exactly a perfect Prince Charming, but yet was much more charming than any of the heroes that preceded him (and most of those who were his successors). He was engaging in every scene he was featured; he was funny, compassionate and selfless, intelligent and clever, jovial and fun despite his mission of great somberness, and is easily one of the most likable and quite admirable Disney heroes.Maid Marian could have been typical in her role, but instead she still came off as quite unique, as she carried with her none of the usual melodrama and overreactions of most Disney female characters; she was instead genuinely lighthearted, caring, and kind-hearted, a perfect match for Robin Hood. Little John, while not shown as often as I'd like, served as a perfect foil for Robin Hood in the scenes he did have, was just a very entertaining character overall, and really was the one to save Robin Hood from Prince John...he was an overlooked hero, for sure, and his friendship with Robin was endearing.Of course, Prince John and Hiss were hilarious. John's combination of being utterly insane, pathetic, spoiled, and at times just plain stupid made for an extremely funny and interesting character, and Hiss was a perfect counterpart for him. All the other characters--from the family of bunnies to Lady Cluck to the singing rooster to Friar Tuck to the sheriff--each had a discriminating personality all their own and all contributed something worthwhile to the film. It was definitely an ensemble film, completed with a greatly diversified and captivating ensemble of characters that play off each other wonderfully.So, the only flaw I find in it is the one that's already been mentioned on here several times: the reused animation and choreography. That's not a major detriment at all though, and I really couldn't care less about it when the overall package of the movie was so spectacular. This movie just oozes with great spirit, camaraderie, fun, charm and delivers the very true and relevant message of the power of unity, hope, and love for one's fellow man in times of hardship. It's a pure joy to watch, my favorite Disney movie, and one of my favorite movies of all-time.
As a kid, the only Disney I watched were 'Snow white', 'Jungle Book' & 'Aristocats», thus being an adult now, I got a lot of movies to discover. Five years ago, we wanted with my twin brother to do the list from the oldest and we picked up 'Pinochio': it was so slow that we felt asleep on the sofa.A recent friendship made me look after 'Aladdin' and now, 'Robin hood'. For this one, I wanted a summer vacations funny movie. The kid didn't like it (again too slow) so I watched it alone and have a really good time.England, medieval times are among my favorites interests. In addition, it's above all a comedy and without a lot of choregraphied songs! When I notice that it was released in 1973, I'am truly amazed. The movie is among my oldest I have seen and as nearly my age, I can tell it ages much better than me, ah, ah! In the DVD, you got also a Mickey cartoon from 1933, making me realized that the Disney company had a tremendous monopole over family entertainment: nearly 60 years (of wonder, like they said!). It's paradoxic but when Disney was the only one, they delivered great classics and since they have newcomers, they didn't have a great hit (I don't count Pixar movies as Disney)
I did not grow up with this movie. In fact I was closer to 30 when I first saw it. Funnily enough I find it the most charming and human of all the Disney movies I've seen, despite it being played by animals. It could be the timeless humor and joyfulness in it, the theme of oppression against evil, the down to earth music or the lack of ornamentation. Or maybe it's simply the digressions and the flaws that does it. It's like a long therm relationship, where you love the other person as much because of her flaws as for her good qualities. I highly recommend seeing it - it will cheer you up.
There had been many film adaptations based on the famous tales of the English folk hero Robin Hood and his Merry Men since 1908; all of them very different too. It is difficult to choose which are my favorite Robin Hood films. But I would say I love Disney's version and 'The Adventures of Robin Hood' starring Errol Flynn.You know something, Walt Disney's Robin Hood is perhaps the most famous animated version of the legend, which had the various characters depicted as anthropomorphic animal characters, including Robin Hood and Maid Marian as foxes; I love foxes. You know, this was probably the very first time that any studio would use anthropomorphic animal characters in an animated feature. I also love three out the songs from the film's soundtrack:
'Oo-de-lally,'
'Love,' and...
'The Phony King of England.' Overall, as I said I love this film and it's another Disney favorite; my dad's favorite too.
One of Disney's best and most underrated classics (virtually second to none), 'Robin Hood' is something every family should own.Translating the characters from Howard Pyle's classic Nottingham Forest into the animal kingdom, Disney had its first true masterpiece over three decades after breaking into the full-length animated film business.'Robin Hood''s only failing is in the song 'Love (It Seems Like Only Yesterday),' which is a typical, nauseating Disney romantic ballad. Otherwise, it features humor, music, animation, and storytelling that can ensnare fans of any age-- and I am living proof of this.This movie truly is 'Most Wanted.' And snakes don't walk, they slither. Hmmph. So *there*.
I have loved this version of 'Robin Hood' ever since I was a kid. All of the other 'Robin Hood' movies I've seen I thought they were boring. One person said that it was the Disney company's secret shame; I really don't see why. This movie was the first Disney flick without the involvement of Walt Disney the man himself and, despite people thought it would be a flop, was a huge hit and the most popular Disney feature at it's time. It was also all the more a hit when it was re-released in the '80's. Another person said it was the best pre 'Little Mermaid' film. I agree with them on that, as well as 'Brave Little Toaster' and 'Great Mouse Detective'. So what I'm saying is don't judge this little gem by its animation: it really is an excellent movie.
The 21st animated Disney classic is one of the funniest classics by Disney.This movie always amused me. I've always loved it my entire life and I will always enjoy it.'Robin Hood' isn't among the most underrated Disney classics but, just like any other Disney classic, it is underrated as well.'Robin Hood' might not be one of the most technically perfect Disney classics but it is very enjoyable and charming.Some people complain about this movie because of its simple picture quality and stuff like that, as if it was terrible. But is it Disney at its worst? Absolutely not! Fortunately this movie is very well accepted in general. Many people love it (including me) and few people seem to dislike it.This great movie has classic humor, British humor, enchantment, charm, romance, drama, nice songs, funny villains and even some depressing moments. But most of the time this movie is deliciously hilarious.For example, the entire sequence of the Archery Tournament's destruction is unbelievably hilarious and hysterical. The whole part of the song 'The Phony King of England' is also hilarious, which continues with the Sheriff and Hiss singing it.These are just some of the most hilarious moments. I could go on, but it would take forever to mention all of them.The songs are all very nice: 'The Phony King of England', 'Love', 'Not in Nottingham', 'Robin Hood' and even the whistle song at the opening credits.About the characters, they're very pleasant in general. Robin Hood is a clever fox, charming and a big joker. Little John is simple as a bear should be and has also a great sense of humor. Friar Tuck is funny and kind hearted. Lady Kluck is hilarious. Maid Marian is a charming female character. Alan-A-Dale is a great minstrel. The bunnies are cool characters.The villains are funny in general. Prince John is funny but also heartless, very evil, greedy, ambitious, explosive, a traitor, a tyrant and a cowardly 'crybaby'. The Sheriff of Nottingham, sometimes referred to as 'Bushel Britches', isn't as mean as Prince John, but he's just as heartless and greedy as P.J.Hiss is a comic relief. He's a hilarious snake, used and abused by Prince John. Hiss isn't really evil or dangerous, he's more kind of 'I want to be evil but I just can't'. In that subject he's very much like Mr. Snoops from 'The Rescuers'.'Robin Hood' has also the precious help of legendary actors to voice the characters: Phil Harris, Terry-Thomas, Peter Ustinov, Andy Devine, John Fiedler, Brian Bedford, Roger Miller, Pat Buttram, J. Pat O'Malley and Barbara Luddy.This should definitely be on Top 250.
I LOVED this cartoon as a kid. I was and am an animal lover anyway, so the idea of Sherwood Forest being populated by a bunch of talking animals delighted me.My favorite characters were Prince John, the hapless lion with his crooked crown, and his right-hand man (or snake), Sir Hiss. I especially enjoyed Prince John's unique way of robbing ladies of their rings, which was to suck them off their fingers while he was pretending to kiss their hands.The highlight of the film is the famous archery contest that turns into a wild and crazy football game. All these years later, I wonder if that section of the film was tipping its hat to the equally delirious football game in 'MASH.' Grade: A
This film was my first movie as a kid. My dad is a history teacher and he wanted me and my sister to know the story I guess. It's full of witty humor , action , music, and romance (Pretty much any type of film rolled into one). At the time the movie was released there were other films out (The Jungle Book , The Aristocats) so most people don't really think it was a Disney cartoon . As a young adult watching it, I find memories flying back to me. The highlight song of the film is the 'Phony King Of England'. It's bouncy , catchy and I still find myself singing or humming along. The highlight scene is definitely the big fight at the end. There is one scare but in true Disney fashion the bad guys faces the consequences and the hero and his lady love are married.But it's one film that I certainly enjoy even now and will be thrilled to have my children watch it too someday.
This is one of the few Disney films I did not see as a kid. It was still enjoyable and still better than most of the movies out there. I really like the music especially when they used the staccato to give the viewer a sense of urgency. I was told right before I watched it by my friends I watched it with that this movie was made when Disney was in a lot of financial problems and I think that actually saved the movie, because without knowing that I would have just thought they were ripping off a lot of characters and voices, but it seems to be a little more forgivable given the financial situation. I really like having the rooster being a folk singer and it helped infuse a different feel to a story of this type. Since it was mostly a fairy tale the fold singer really melded the different genres together. In all honestly the best parts were the really quite little animals. They were supposed to be sappy were a cheap way of getting the viewer to feel bad for the situation and it worked extremely well. I actually enjoyed the animals and how ridiculous it was to have all of them in the same universe and playing off each extremely well. It is not my favorite Disney film, but it is still a Disney film, which makes it a lot of fun.
This movie was so much fun to see again. So many animated movies today are for adults first and children second. This story of Robin Hood was truly a family movie. The humor, though not as excellent as 'The Jungle Book', was really good. My kids haven't stopped talking about certain scenes. They like to act out some of the silly scenes, especially of Prince John. And I don't have to explain anything to my kids because of lines being written over their heads. I think this tells us where we were in the early 70's for children's entertainment and where we are today in the 00's. I did recognize some of the same voices from previous Disney movies, but that has always been their trend. I prefer not recognizing celebrity names that distract from the story, but that just can't be avoided. I just really enjoyed it.
While it is obvious Robin Hood may not rank amongst Disney's finest such as The Lion King, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin and the Little Mermaid, it is in no way awful!This plot retells the timeless story in a kid-friendly fashion without compensating for quality. The music, while not exactly dazzling, is fun and enjoyable. The characters are irresistible and their voices match perfectly. Phil Harris, Brian Bedford, Monica Evans, Peter Ustinov and Terry-Thomas play their roles well and bring forth the personalities of each character from the charming wit of Robin Hood to the sweet demure of Maid Marian. The script is chock-full of witty banter and memorable speech. All things considered, Robin Hood is a lovely movie with something for everyone to enjoy.
To introduce your children to the Robin Hood story, this one does a very good job. There are many qualities it has that make a child want to watch it over & over again. This is the official Disney animation of the Sherwood Forrest bandits.The Roger Miller soundtrack is great, & even adults can appreciate what the old King of The Road singer put into composing his songs for this movie. The music is contemporary & catchy. Phil Harris has a great song in it too. The music appeals to everybody.Add to that, a lot of fine voices for the animated cast in this one. This is one of the first animated films that really got a lot of good celebrity voices. Some of the animated sequence drawings very much resemble the live action ones in the 1938 classic too.The story is told slightly differently & the script actually has some real fun with the characters & brings the story to a new lifestyle as Robin Hood is a fox in this story.My favorite quote in this one is from Friar Tuck, 'Parise the Lord & pass the tax rebates!'.
This is Robin Hood given the good old American folksy treatment to help it go down with Disney's domestic market: the characters adventure around the 'village' of 'Notting-Ham', the cutesy bunnies worship 'Robbinood' and the Sheriff has a 'posse': doubtless the only sort of Sheriff those Saturday-morning audiences had ever encountered... But the amazing thing is that really, it does get away with it. Half the characters may be upper-class and the other half hoarse-voiced American gangsters, the songs may be lacklustre (weirdly enough, I heard this first in a dubbed Scandinavian version on board a ship going up the Baltic -- it's a long story to explain -- where the singing seemed much better), but the story of Robin Hood is pretty robust, and it can survive almost anything save being taken excessively seriously. Robin Hood is the trickster of English folklore, a wicked merry rogue, and the worst thing you can do to him is submerge him in meaningful gloom; no danger of that here.For what could be more impudent and wily than a clever red fox? Half the humour of the film consists of watching the archetypal characters matched to appropriate animals: the ponderous spearmen as rhinoceroses, the trumpeters as elephants, burly Little John as a bear, Prince John as a mangy royal lion, Marian's nurse as a plump and flustered hen (with a lone and inexplicable Scottish accent...). I confess I could do without the obligatory Disney child-characters ('Aw, they're kiiiissing!'), but at least they don't have any significant role to play in saving the day -- that would be just too nauseating. The little church-mouse-deacon and his wife, on the other hand, are a nice touch.Given its general child-friendly remit, the film does a pretty good job of painting its villains in a convincing bad light, showing them stealing a child's birthday present, squeezing taxes from a cripple by jarring his broken leg (with the infamous tax slogan 'if it isn't hurting, it isn't working!'), and emptying the poor-box. From the very first scene, we are reminded that things are getting more dangerous for Robin and his band: even Robin has to admit that the Sheriff's men are getting better. And while Prince John is an ineffective villain, his intentions are gratifyingly ruthless: none of those infuriating scenes where the Evil Overlord dithers around giving the hero a chance to escape. Earlier 'Robin Hood' pictures are referenced in the sequence where Robin is trapped just the wrong side of a portcullis as his companions escape; but there is no effortless swarm to the top and over the gates here. In one of the genuinely nail-biting pieces of action, our quicksilver fox ends up cornered in a burning tower, climbing ever upwards as the flames rise, and rapidly running out of options...The film has its flaws, although I'm not sure the lack of an overarching plot is one of them: the Robin Hood legends and ballads never really had one, being a long list of apocryphal exploits strung together. The ending is a definite cop-out, though, jumping directly to the happy-ever-after epilogue without any intervening action at all -- it's as if someone just got bored of writing and decided to stop dead. What it does have in abundance, and what some of its live-action rivals disastrously lack, is a saving sense of mischief.
I love this film because it shows kindness, fun, defending, escaping, disguising, being mean and romantic - all at the same time! :() Most Disney classics don't have these many adjectives to it and that's why I like it so much! I also love all the characters. I even admire the baddies - and that's saying something. The film is based on the story of Robin Hood and all the characters are animals! Robin Hood is a fox, Little John is a bear, etc. It shows Robin Hood stealing from the prince (!) and giving a birthday present to a little bunny! He is also hoping to win in an archery competition and see his love (Maid Marian) for the first time in ages. Can he win two things - the competition and Maid Marian's heart?I recommend this to people who love Robin Hood, daring attacks and defences, kind and fun characters and Disneys! Enjoy this lovely classic! :) ;) :()
It really makes you wonder why can't Disney do more movies like this? I thought this was one of the most wonderful of any film that Disney ever made. Of course, the people of today do two things with this masterpiece: leave it unnoticed, or bash it to the ground, so they can watch some overrated stuff. Backgrounds: supreme, wonderful. Character designs: Done by the oh-so-wonderful Don Bluth, plus, this film has the most funniest villains ever to be shown on the silver screen (who wouldn't laugh at that mama's boy, Prince John?) and it as all kinds of emotion here: cute, mushy romance, a bit of drama here and there, and lots and lots of humor. Also, that little rabbit kid, Skippy, is one of the most adorable cartoon kids I've ever seen. One last things I'd like to add: the songs, some catchy and fun 'Phony King of England' while some are really morose 'Not in Nottingham'. Overall, I give it two thumbs up.
The film focus only one a few merry men and the poor peasants. When we did see Sherwood forest was after the romantic scene with Maid Marion. Robin had a pig, cat, dog, jackrabbit on drums and two foxes or wolves by the looks of their paws clapping to the music in the party scene.During the tournament escape scene, the posse were chasing after Maid Marion , the only person who was behaving and not doing anything wrong or against the law. This is the niece of Prince John, guys? why are you chasing her? She cries for help and her hero, Robin Hood fends one off with his sword. All posse were carrying a spear or spears when they started to chase Maid Marion. Where did one of them get a sword? Thanks goodness Robin Hood push a throne on them? Shouldn't they be arresting Lady Kluck or one of those peasants, Little John, a female wolf, or someone else who is actually breaking the law?
Robin Hood and Maid Marrien are foxes, Little John is a bear, Frier Tuck is a badger, The sheriff is a wolf, and King John is a lion who has a snake partner named Sir Hiss in Disney's animated adaptation of the tale of the most famous socialist, and it is an amazing and delightful film. The story is pretty much your usual Robin hood legend, he and Little John steal from the rich to give to the poor which includes Frier Tuck, and a cute family of rabbits, all while our hero is eying his past love, Main Marrien. Meanwhile, King John wants to foil his plans with the help of Sir Hiss and the sheriff of Nottingham. There's a goofy rooster sidekick who is delightful in helping stop the bad guys. To make things even cooler, there's a minstrel Rooster who narrates the whole tale through song. This is an amazing film full of color, wit, romance, excitement, humor, music, and action. The visuals are overall perfect, despite some animated shots recycled from previous Disney films which i don't mind. The voice work fits perfect with the characters expressions and tone. The films has a couple of fairly intense sequences(both of them involving the sheriff and both of them in the middle and toward the end of the film) but overall, the parts work well. As for whether or not the characters are adapted adequately, you'll have to be the judge of that. To me, it doesn't matter because i love the way all the characters are. The King John character is hilarious when somebody mentions his mom. Frier Tuck is sweet as the feeble but kind elder of the monastery. The sheriff, despite being kind of cruel in a couple parts, is interesting enough to be memorable. Maid Marrien as the damsel in distress should keep viewers on the edge of their seat. Little John is not so little, but manages to be the same kind of character as Baloo in the jungle book, in other words, AWESOME. And of course, Robin Hood. The best character in the film. The film is about him, and yet when it was over, I missed him. When I was three years old, I fell in love with him. He's just, amazing. The music is also great. Its very memorable and catchy. I wouldn't be surprised if someone were caught humming the music five years from now. Anyways, this is a classic. If you haven't seen it already, check it out. If you have children, watch it with them. It'll become a family favorite before you know it.
Robin Hood is one of the best told stories ever told.There have been many different versions of the story told. But this one is told with animals.Disney true has made some classic movies and this has to be one of their very best.You have some of the best hand drawn animation ever seen in a movie.Of course the music is more of a Disney style and it is very well done.The voice acting is top notch.And the jokes are sure to make you laugh.Overall Robin Hood is one of Disney's classic and one movie that is never a problem.I give Robin Hood 10 out of 10.Classic movie
The Hanna/Barberaism of the Disney studios continued (after the plodding and dull 'Aristocats') with this lame excuse to make money off of kids. A few other reviewers have pointed out the jerky and often grinding-to-a-slow-crawl plot and the characters that were more wooden than Pinocchio. What bothered me, and I mean what bothered me to the point of wincing when it was originally released, was how the people at Disney were simply plum out of ideas. You really can appreciate Walt Disney's genius at telling a story, and the team he left behind simply couldn't pull it off. So, they decided to recycle some old animation in the hopes that no one would notice. First, they put some clothes on Baloo, then they use animated scenes from Snow White, the Aristocats, and the Jungle Book just to cut corners and hope that no one noticed. What were they thinking? Even though Maid Marian's dance moves were so obviously from Snow White, at least that film was older than the kids who went to see this movie. But to rip off animation from the previous two movies? Particularly the high-points of the previous two movies? The only good thing they did was use the Hamster Dance in the opening credits. Pity they didn't have any hamsters dancing, though. Just recycled clips from the movie itself.
When I was young, my favorite scene in Disney's version of 'Robin Hood' was always the battle following archery tournament (you gotta admit, it would be cool to experience that). Otherwise, it seems like the whole thing is sort of a Disney movie: a classic story turned into a jolly musical, with some comic relief here and there.So, it's not a terrible movie. I just prefer the Errol Flynn version, and Mel Brooks's spoof of the Kevin Costner version (plus the short cartoons starring Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck). OK for some brief entertainment.So yes, let's point that pea-shooter the other way.
I wouldn't recommend the Disney animated 70s movie of Robin Hood as essential Disney, but I have some great memories of it as a kid anyway. If there's any one thing I could probably criticize it's the song numbers- they just don't work and lack the fine polish of the Sherman brothers collaborations. Looking back on it it's very dated in that respect, sort of serving to the kids of the moment in part, and even to the point of reusing actual dancing bits from the Jungle Book (if you've seen these movies as much as I have you start to notice these things). And as far as energy goes it's sometimes pretty lackadaisical. This being said, I also found a lot of it to be very funny, with the interplay between Peter Ustinov and Terry Thomas is fantastically good- they're such laughable villains, yet when they do strike their irons down it goes pretty dangerously. Of course you wont find anything at all in way of getting at all into the character underneath their basic demeanors- Robin Hood and those on his side, good, Prince John and those on his side, bad. But within those boundaries there is entertaining stuff going around, with the first robbing of Prince John through the very cheap disguise Robin puts on one, and another when Little John disguises himself as a Duke. Again, nothing immediately noteworthy, but as a kid I found a lot to go on it, with the more cartoonish aspects of the villains and side character outweighing the weaker sections of music and song, stale Robin and Mariam parts, and so on.
Walt Disney's Robin Hood is one of the only entirely animated Disney features I've seen that I can recall. I've enjoyed all of the Disney movies that I've seen, but this would be #1 on my list. The use of animals being all of the characters is very clever, considering that very few people would watch it other than to judge whether they like it or not. If you DON'T like this movie, give it away or donate it to a homeless shelter. If you DO like it, share it with other people that you think might like it. If you like this movie but don't have a copy of it, check around for places that do. So, rent or buy your copy of 'Robin Hood' ASAP.My rating: 10 out of 10. ^_^ ^__^
This is a fine animated Disney flick: in the same era as The Aritocats and The Jungle Book (both of which also have Phil Harris voicing a key character) and of similar quality.The quality of the animation is average for the era; but the storyline is above average: lots of good humor, based on the timeless story.But I want to draw attention to the Roger Miller songs: 'oo-de-lally' and 'not in Nottingham': both are fantastic tunes, but never seem to have gained the same fame as famous tunes from other animated movies. Roger Miller, of course, is most famous for his mega-hit 'King of the Road'.
Perhaps I'm being favorable to it because...well, just because it was innocent and wholesome during a time when I was grateful for anything like it. I'm sure if you compare all of it's elements such as musical score, animation, plot and all, it tallies to be sub-par Disney. But to me there's no greater Disney film. Just because when I was little, King John and Sir Hiss made me laugh, Maid Marrion made me smile and blush, Robin made me feel fearless and roguish. All the clever one liners and witticisms made me chuckle. The sad parts had me bleary-eyed. And in the end I wanted to be like Robin Hood. Now I've seen the Little Mermaid, Aladdin etc... They're all fine films with just as much wit and a little more polish. But their characters will always be alien to me, whereas, these old bizarre fading characters from a half-forgotten film about silly mawkish subjects as courtly love and chivalry are my most prized. Maybe it can be written off as simple nostalgia, if so, then amen. But when I see my little baby sister watching it, I see the same reactions I always had...
The clever little snake, Hiss, was the best part of the movie. He plays Prince John's sidekick and he is absolutely hilarious. I grew up watching this movie and always had a soft spot for hiss. I wonder where I could find hiss merchandise? If anyone knows, let me know! I'm curious to know if there are any other 'hiss fans' out there. He is probably the funniest cartoon character that I have ever encountered. As far as the other characters go, some of them are corny and boring. The movie itself is really good, and teaches wonderful values. The dialog is outdated because it was made in the early thirties, but it still pertains to world events (stealing from the rich to help the poor.)
Disney's 1973 animated feature 'Robin Hood' takes place in Sherwood Forest, near which is now Birmingham in England. Here, we see and hear about the famous story of Robin Hood, who, as many of y'all know, stole from the rich and had given to the poor. It's a very exciting story which the folks at Disney made into an animated film; for instance, we have a fox taking the role here.What I like about this film: It's terrific. Disney does an excellent job with the old films; quality animation, many being based on fairy tales that were read to us as little children, and nothing but 100% family fun!!!!!These thoughts have made me have a go at this movie! 'Robin Hood' is one Disney flick that will never be forgotten and will live in our hearts for centuries to come. :-)10/10
'Robin Hood' is generally considered to be one of the weakest Disney animated classics. Well, much has been said about the film. Remember, after Walt Disney's death in 1966, the studio seemed to enter a rut of sorts. Disney approved 'The Aristocats' before his death, and the resulting film began production after his death since 'The Jungle Book' was a huge success in 1967. The resulting film received bad reviews but did well at the box office.'Robin Hood' on the other hand seemed to be made on a budget, for some reason. I'm guessing the Disney studios wanted to play it safe after Walt's death, and not have anything expensive or very ambitious. Well, on the bright side, 'Robin Hood' has some interesting characters and some good songs. Some find it annoying and rather generic that Disney adapted the original story and turned the cast into talking animals. Producer Wolfgang Rietherman defended this idea, saying it was a 'whole new way of looking at a classic tale'. He also mentions that audiences exercise a great amount of imagination with animals than humans.Maybe it was done so the newly recruited Disney animators at the time could get started with drawing animal characters. Personally, I'm fine with the talking animal thing. Robin Hood is a fox, and I think that really works for his personality, being sly and crafty. Little John is portrayed as a bear that looks a lot of The Jungle Book's Baloo, and he's voiced by the same actor too, Phil Harris. But Little John is a pretty cool character, and he serves as a good sidekick.I also thought Friar Tuck, Allan-A-Dale, Maid Marian and Lady Klucky were great characters. I wasn't way too fond of Skippy and his friends, as they seemed to slow down the movie a bit with the scene where they go after his arrow.The plot, Robin Hood and Little John rob from the rich to feed the poor. Greedy Prince John, a lion, is taking over while he sent his brother King Richard on a 'crazy crusade'. Unlike the terrifying Disney villains like Maleficent and The Wicked Queen, Prince John is a real wimp. This is what makes him a very funny villain, as he acts childish to get his away. His snake assistant, Sir Hiss, is also a pretty funny character and I like the scenes where he gets Prince John mad.The structure of this film is episodic. It somewhat feels like different episodes of Robin Hood's adventures are strung together to form an 83-minute film. However, I don't find it that disjointed. And the sequences are very entertaining, whether it's Robin Hood and Little John disguised as fortune tellers or the Archery Tournament scene.Not to mention, this film has quite a lot of funny moments. Unfortunately, aside from the plot, the film does suffer from the use of recycled animation. Now yes, 'The Jungle Book' and 'Goliath II' (1960 Disney short film) reused animation. In 'Robin Hood', the reused animation is not subtle. You'll notice, mostly on the 'Phony King of England' scene, that animation of dancing from 'Snow White', 'The Jungle Book' and 'The Aristocats'. This doesn't mean the animation is terrible. The film has nice background artwork and the characters all move fine. It's still ahead of everything else that was out at the time. 'Robin Hood' was a box office hit despite the mixed reviews, and it's one of the few Disney films that hasn't been put back in the vault (it's been that way since the 1991 video release).The music is one of the higher points. The opening, 'Whistle Stop', I'll always love. 'Oo-de-Lally' is a good one too. 'The Phony King of England' is another good one as well. 'Love' is alright at best, it sounds sort of dated and syrupy. I'm actually surprised that it was nominated for Academy Award for Best Song. 'Not in Nottingham' is probably one of the best songs in the film.'Robin Hood' is a good movie, a very entertaining film from Disney. Sure it's no 'Snow White' or 'Pinocchio' or any tour-de-force like that, but it doesn't try to be anything big. It's an entertaining film with flaws, but it's enjoyable.8.5 out of 10.
Disney's Robin Hood is my all time favorite Disney animation movie and right up there with one of my favorite all time movies. I can practically recite every word from 'Robin Hood and Little John Walking through the Forest' to 'There's the church bells someone's gett'n hitched'. Yet it's hardly ever mentioned, it's always been hard to find and you can never get a poster. The songs are never lauded and they should be 'The Phoney King of England' is a hoot! And even though 'Love' was nominated for an Oscar, it's an obscure fact.The animation is beautiful! Those scenes of the castle & the church in the rain - you would think it was shot rather than drawn. The dialog is smart with subtleties & wit. The character's motives are seen and not told. It's not dumb down at all for kids. It's more romantic then Lady & The Tramp, Beauty and the Beast and The Little Mermaid combined. And yes, that Fox, Robin Hood himself, voiced by Brian Bedford was and will always be sexy!
Does anyone remember a scene where robin hood is about to be hanged by prince john's henchmen when he's saved by an arrow that cuts the noose at the last second (or something like he's about to have his head chopped off, and it turns out that Little John is the hangman in disguise)?! Because I really vividly remember this scene, but when I watched a DVD of this movie last week this scene wasn't in the film. Also, the film felt shorter to me before I even realized that I had remembered this scene; was it cut out of the DVD versions so as not to scare children? Am I totally imagining this?! Hellllllllllllp meeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
The story is weak. The animation looks more like Hanna-Barbera second-rate TV animation than the quality Disney was known for prior to Walt Disney's death and the 'Little Mermaid'/'Lion King' era. Let's be honest. Most of the animated films that came out of the Disney studios post 'Jungle Book' up until 'Little Mermaid' were quickly put together and seriously lacking in what the earlier animated films had. The only exceptions to this were 'The Many Adventures of Winnie The Pooh', which was a compilation of the Winnie-The-Pooh shorts shown in the 60s, and possibly 'The Fox And The Hound'. Disney did much better in 70s and 80s with re-releases of earlier films than new releases during this time period. Unfortunately, someone was not doing their job during that time. Sadly, the same thing has happened with the post-'Lion King' animated films that Disney has made. I suppose it's asking too much that the quality of a Snow White or Pinocchio be seen in every one of Disney's animated films.
As above. Don't you ever wonder what the fascist, communist-hating Mr. Disney would have thought about bringing such an inherently socialist tale to the silver screen under his life's work's label? I know I do. Robin Hood quite explicitly makes the rich and royal people of England out to be total crooks, and the poor workers out to be heroes in a Marxist fashion. 'Stealing from the rich and giving to the needy.' Indeed. The adventurous Sherwood Forest hero Robin Hood who did so was my very first crush. Luckily, I have since then outgrown my infatuation for animals. Although I can look back and see that he still is quite the fox.I maintain there are subtle elements of English humour that shine through in Disney's Robin Hood, and maybe that is why I like it so much. It may also be the hysterical comedic sidekicks like Sir Hiss. Whatever it is, this is without a doubt the best story of Robin Hood told on film, even though it's a cartoon aimed for kids. Good songs, good fast-paced action (that archery contest at the medieval fair was genius), interesting characters and nicely animated sets. All the characters have been translated into appropriate and symbolic animals. If you haven't thought about that before, do it next time you watch this film.Maid Marion is perhaps one of the weakest female Disney characters, but then, they have never been known to be very dimensional or showed much range other than when they are the protagonists (like Ariel), and Marion is not oneshe is a supporting character to the awesome Robin Hood and that is enough for this film.Robin Hood is Disney film that's stuck with me through the years and its only rival for best Disney film of all time is perhaps Aladdin.
This movie was a staple of my childhood. However, Mr. Disney is probably rolling over in his grave at the poor quality of this animation. This film was made after his death. The animators were lazy and used many looped clips as well as recycled parts from other scenes and even other movies. The music and script were worthy of original animation. That being said I still own this movie on VHS and long for the day that I can find it on DVD. 'Robin Hood and Little John walkin' through the forest, laughin' back and forth at what the other had to say, never ever thinking' there was danger in the water they were drinkin' they just guzzled it down.......'
Robin Hood is definitely in my Top 10 Disney movies list.Everybody I know loves this movie .It is the best version I've seen.You won't get bored during it I promise.First off, you've got the heroes : Robin Hood and Little John then you've got the heroine :the pretty Maid Marian , and last but not least there's the villain :the very funny Prince John and Sir Hiss. There's even some good songs like : 'O De Lally' , 'Love' ,'The Phony King of England' , and 'Not in Nottingham'.Finally there's some action and romance.Robin Hood will not disappoint you.
*Contains a very minor spoiler*Robin Hood is one of the greatest Disney films made, and I applaud Disney for their effort.The story is a little different than what I expected. I knew it would have a happy ending, but I didn't get exactly what I expected. I'm glad that I didn't, because it would have had to have been 20 or so minutes longer otherwise. And a movie that is too long is not always a good thing, with the exception of the LOTR trilogy, which I love.That said, the voice cast is super. Brian Bedford as Robin Hood and Phil Harris - Baloo in The Jungle Book - (RIP) as Little John. They were the best in the cast, and did their parts well. I can't remember any other voices, except George Lindsay who did Trigger's voice, one of the vultures. I mention him only because he appears on my favorite TV show, 'The Andy Griffith Show' as Goober, Gomer's cousin.Anyway, Robin Hood is a great film. I recommend to people of all ages.My Score: 8/10.
'Robin Hood' was one of my favourite Disney animations when I was younger. This animation included a cast of animals playing the characters in the tale. Robin Hood is a fox, and Little John is a bear. A group of these animals team up to steal from the rich and give to the poor.This was a fun animation with plenty of humor, action, and adventure. I am not sure what I would think of this film now, through an adult's eyes, but I absolutely loved it. No, this animation cannot be compared to some of Disney's other films, but this does nothing to hurt the film. It is still a fun film and worth a watch. I think it is also a film that children can appreciate even today. This is also my favourite film version of Robin Hood's tale.
I loved this movie as a kid. I knew the lines off by heart, and amazingly, I still do! Watching this movie again as an adult, I can see that there are problems with continuity and animation and the like. However, I noticed that the story is still sweet and funny and romantic. And I still liked it even though it wasn't as song heavy as, say, the Little Mermaid, which is the type of Disney movies I tend to enjoy.I especially noticed the good voice acting, by characters such as Prince John and Robin Hood himself.As long as you don't try to tear this movie apart while watching, or compare it to other versions of Robin Hood, this movie is still very enjoyable and entertaining.
I've watched Robin Hood since before I could understand language. Even back then it entertained me, enough for my parents to have to play it whenever they wanted to keep me out of trouble. One would expect that anything that can hold the attention of a toddler is not going to have the same effect on an adult. I am glad to say that it does. I can watch this film today with the same eagerness, the same enjoyment and the same suspension of knowledge of what's going to happen. Who could help doing otherwise? It's first class storytelling.There are the age-old characters, archetypes as well known as the story itself. In a twist of genius, the tale is set in the animal world. Robin Hood, everyone's hero, brought to magnificent life by a fox and given a dashing yet endearing voice. There's his ladylove, the long-lashed, elegant, eminently lovable Maid Marian, also a fox and just as perfectly voiced. One look at Marian, and it's easy to understand why Robin is so lost in his dreams of her that he ruins the stew he's been stirring.Prince John, however likable the others, has somehow topped my list. Fittingly chosen to be a mane-less lion (compare his appearance with his brother Richard who has an ample mane), constantly whining for his mother when thwarted and complaining about Richard, he is the best representation of John I've ever seen. One mustn't forget his penchant for alliterating, in especial reference to his much put-upon sidekick/adviser Sir Hiss, a snake. Priceless gems like 'Procrastinating Python', 'Slithering Serpent' and of course the irresistible 'You eel in snake's clothing' can all be heard directed at the pitiable Sir Hiss whenever John is frustrated in his plans to capture the elusive Robin. The unfortunate duo plays off each other very well. It must be said that whoever thought of getting Sir Peter Ustinov to voice the role of P.J. should have been promoted instantly. The late, brilliant Ustinov is greatly missed, but he lives on in his wonderful comedic works. His part here is right up there with his best performances. No one could have done greater justice to the younger brother who (rightly) feels that his governance compares unfavourably with Richard's.A few other characters deserve to be mentioned. Little John, a bear very reminiscent of Jungle Book's Baloo, is light-hearted, trustworthy and the perfect companion and friend for our Robin. On one occasion early on, they have a great outing together as cross-dressers and use their very believable disguise to steal P.J. for everything he has on him. As for his voice, Little John's carefree American accent works very well alongside the British ones of the others. The lady-in-waiting to Marian, Clucky, is a brave lass and Friar Tuck is a kind old fellow. There are also the kids in the family of rabbits who understandably admire and adore Robin and Marian.The script is smashing. What with the comedy, the heroic and witty lines for the good guys and the hysterical silliness of the sour villains of the story, this is a winner. It's always fun and never grows tired. The little ditty about Prince John's incompetence that goes around ('too late to be known as John the first, he's sure to be known as John the worst') is very in keeping with the rest of this film's tone. And who can forget the sheer madness of such a line as 'I sentence you to sudden, instant and even immediate death', courtesy of Prince John of course.It's not only comedy, because to top it all off, this film must have the best confession of love ever filmed. Although it works infinitely better when you watch it, I will attempt to sketch it here. Caught, tied up, sentenced and threatened with execution, Robin looks into Marian's expressive eyes and says 'Marian my darling, I love you more than life itself'. Her emotional response is an equally memorable one to behold. More sweetness inevitably follows in the eventual escape, but I'll leave that for your viewing pleasure.The film wouldn't be complete without a fitting climax, and to satisfy us all, we've been given a good one. Climbing to the top of a turret, Robin has to leap down into the moat to avoid the fires that are close on his heels. His friends down below look on to see where he surfaces and are dismayed to find Robin appearing nowhere yet, to the delight of Prince John and Sir Hiss. It's a nice tug at the heartstrings. Although initially all hope seems lost, we know that the story isn't finished until the deserving Robin gets to be with his Marian and all's right with Nottingham and England.Disney surpassed themselves with this one. It's much more than the sum of its parts (voice talent and likable characters, witty script, character designs, plotting). Having watched this a countless number of times in the past, I look forward to continuing to do so.
Before I heard of the Kevin Costner and Errol Flynn versions of the classic legend story of the man who stole from the rich and gave to the poor, there was this cartoon version by Walt Disney Pictures, with the interesting idea of animals playing the characters. I obviously liked it when I was a kid, but I saw it not too long ago, and it is just a bit corny and more aimed at kids. Anyway, it brings back singer Phil Harris from The Aristocats and The Jungle Book, as Little John. It also introduces Brian Bedford as Robin Hood. There are some good moments of cartoon like comedy, but again, more for kids. Also starring Peter Ustinov as Prince John and tom thumb's Terry-Thomas as Sir Hiss. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for 'Love'. Good!
I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities. The animation in My opinion was crisp, clean, and really clear. Not to mention beautiful! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love. in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen. In fact, The things that goes on in this series' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today!
I loved this movie as a kid, as did just about every person I know. So it works for the youngins. As an adult, and an animation fan, I was surprised to learn that this movie is sort of the Disney studio's secret shame. I had nothing but fond memories of it, after all. And I could name at least a dozen Disney films that I would have put ahead of it on my Most Crappy list. I very recently watched it on television after many years, and yes, it is definitely flawed. The quality of the animation is terrible, and the lack of an over arching story makes the whole thing seem frivolous, like it was made for TV and not for a big studio release. There are holes in the narrative, scenes that should exist that don't, and scenes that have no reason to exist that do. And I think the somewhat random decision to cast the film with animals lends to the Saturday morning vibe as well.But there's enough cool things peaking out from under all the half-assery that rescues the film just enough for it to be enjoyable. Peter Ustinov turns in an excellent, excellent performance as Prince John, at turns hysterical and genuinely nasty. Brian Bedford oozes easy going charm as Robin. He's probably turned in the second most likable performance of the character captured on film. He's just unfortunately delivering it through the poorly animated mouth of a cartoon fox. And though the actual quality of the animation is poor, some of the character animation is pretty clever and expressive. And I have to applaud the choice to add Roger Miller to the mix as a folkie, possibly pot-smoking minstrel rooster. His character adds a cool, Earthy vibe to the proceedings and as others have mentioned, his song, Not in Nottingham, actually sort of works as a blues song. Weird.So Robin Hood is definitely not the epic tale Disney was capable of churning out in its hey days, but I dug it as a kid, and I still dig it today. You know, looking back at all my reviews on this site, it seems I mostly leap to the defense of classically bad films that I like anyway. That's OK, I guess. Someone has to.
Disney's Robin Hood (1973) was the second film released after Uncle Walt's death (the first was the Jungle Book-1968). I've always liked this film for Different reasons. When I was younger, I liked it because, well...it was Disney. Everything Disney was right in my eyes. Robin Hood was one of my favorite films as a small child. Recently, I saw it again on television after not seeing it for a very long time. Now I have a whole new set of reasons for why I thoroughly enjoy this film.Ken Anderson did something quite special with Robin Hood, he combined the elements of a traditional animated Disney feature with some creative ideas of his own.One element of both Disney animated features and shorts where the use of animals instead of people where telling an unoriginal story. The story of Robin Hood had been told in many live-action movies (with Earl Flynn's performance still the standard). In the Disney film, the animators used the obvious choice of a fox for the role of Robin Hood. Maid Marian had to be a Vixen (because inter-species love is really weird). A bear was a good choice for Robin's right hand man, because as we all know, fat people make perfect sidekicks.Another Disney tradition upheld was the great animation. Ever since Snow White, Disney has been the standard for great animation. Though other animation studios tried to duplicate Disney, they we're seldom successful. The animation in Robin Hood was no exception.Robin Hood was also a very original film for Disney. The film started with a Rooster that sang folks song and was kind of a hippie. In most movies about Robin Hood he was kind of this God figure that was untouchable. In this one, Robin Hood was just a regular guy that only wanted to help his people out. He had his dreams and ambitions and faults like everyone else.In closing, Robin Hood is a great family film. Children, teenagers, and adults can enjoy it. 8 out of 10 stars.
No matter how many bad reviews there are about this movie, they're all wrong.I've seen this movie a good 10 times as a child, and I still remember it being the greatest retelling of the legend... ever! I'm sure you've heard from everyone on the board saying things like, 'recycling of characters,' or 'Redoing of old scenes'... even with all that, Disney told one hell of a story, and there's no arguing that.What we have here is an obvious lack of taste... after all, it did win a golden screen award... very nice! Also, let's not forget that it was made in 1973; so don't get in my face about the animation... that's just how things were.For all you naysayers, I say this: take this one for a spin if you love classic Disney.10/10
I watched this film last time couple of years ago, and I liked it very much. I don't know do I still like it, but at least I would like to watch the English dubbed version, because I have seen only the finish dubbed version.Story is the same, but characters little different. Robin Hood is a fox, Maid Marian is a vixen, little John a bear, Prince John a lion and Sheriff of Nottingham a wolf. I guess that sir Hiss is the changed name of Guy Gisborne.This is not one of the best Disney movies, but still very good. It has action, adventure, humor, romance and good songs. It was also the biggest hit in the box-office at the time than any other Disney movie before it. Still, I'm very surprised that the song 'Love' earned an Oscar nomination.As I said, I would like to watch the English dubbed version of this film.
This is my favorite rendition of Robin Hood! Costner has nothing compared to Brian Bedford!This is absolutely the most under-rated Disney animation ever made. While it tells the story quite well, it also has some beautiful supporting characters, a wonderfully treacherous Prince John (Peter Ustinov), and some adorable comic relief in Terry Thomas's Sir Hiss.While this was made when I was around 10 or so, it was still one of my favorite movies of all time. Of course, a scant four years later, Star Wars was to usurp it as my very favorite, but it remained a close second for many years to come.I'm not entirely sure, but I think this is the only Disney animation to have all the characters portrayed by animals alone. The songs, while I usually find them annoying, are quite endearing; cute even. I highly recommend giving it a good watch or two.It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend :.
I was looking at the members of this excellent cast, and I noticed that most of them were deceased. I found a bunch of great music by Roger Miller other than Robin Hood that I enjoy very much as well.I remember this movie because it was the first one that made me cry when I was a kid. I still have that same kind of feeling when I go back and watch it.Sadly it took me a very long time to greatly appreciate this movie for the great piece of work it really is, those who took part in the making of the film, and the voice acting of the characters.Thanks to IMDb for having such great info on this film.
In many ways, the perfect movie. The 'Incredible Journey' and Horatio Alger tale come together for a positive spin on the usually depressing subject of existentialism. In essence, the travails of the muppets boil down to the finale song of the movie: 'Life's like a movie, write your own ending, keep believing, keep pretending.' They create their own reality, which has all the trappings of every epic tale: a lofty goal at the end of what is necessarily a obstacle-laden journey; an ever-increasing group of like-minded individuals for camaraderie; a nasty set of villians who are not beyond all redemption; and a big-budget Hollywood ending because, darn it all, they CAN.Only Jim Henson could pull this off. He walks the line between sentimentality and philosophy without swerving too long or too hard into either. Of course it seems odd that invest such weight into a film starring puppets, but in the end perhaps they are the perfect, uh, puppet to make these points. The movie's atmosphere allows for the pure enjoyment of the Hollywood dream, the 'happy' ending, unnecessary cameos, and bursting into song at the drop of a hat. Usually these aspects are anathema to quality in film, but the self-deprecating manner under which the story is delivered makes for guilt-free viewing. One of the few films that can truly be called 'suitable for all ages.'The other muppet-related films (including 'The Empire Strikes Back'), while palatable, do not touch the simple grace of this film. Take, for instance, the musical number 'Hope that Something Better Comes Along,' the duet of Kermit and Rowlf. Amusing in its vaudevillian goofiness, yet makes a bitingly crucial point about the motivations behind life choices. Brilliant.
We all lost something important when Jim Henson died. But his magic alone wasn't sufficient to do more than clever skits, both before and after this gem. Some fated match of director, writers, songwriters and puppeteers came together to create an underappreciated masterpiece.Forget the kids -- this is a great work, period. Among the best story-films ever. And nowhere is the enfolding of reality and fantasy more rich than here. Naturally, you have the mix of humans (accented by celebrity cameos) and puppets. And some puppets are of humans, some of human-like animals, and some of animal-like animals. But that's just the tokens.The real novelty comes in the story. It is a film about the making of itself, with a wonderful sequence at the end where the film is represented in cartoonish props contrasted with a `real' rainbow. Throughout, one weaves between being in the story and observing the story. Kermit (Henson's alterego) says `I hope you appreciate I'm doing my own stunts.' Think about it.The songs, themselves self-referential, are important frosting: `why are there so many songs about rainbows?'`Life is a movie, write your own ending, keep believing, keep pretending...' You don't get that in common fare. If you have kids, this is the most educational exposure you can give them among the kiddie offerings. There's nothing more powerful than the ability to perform abstract reasoning and the foundation of that is the play between what things are and what things represent them. Thanks and God bless you, Jim.
I have the same problem now that I had with this film originally: A 'frog-killer' has no place in a Muppet Movie, although the 'High-Noon' gunfight is lots of fun and a giant 'Animal' steals the scene. This film is amazing because there are no CGI generated special effects. It is all done with miniatures, animatronics, and over-sized Muppets. You can only imagine all the Muppet Performers, on their hands and knees, in a trench, dragging along the floor of the set with 'rich and famous' Orson Welles. Most of the cameos work quite well and it is especially nice to see Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy for one last time. The Paul Williams score is almost perfect and he remains a very under-rated composer. He is a genius, and still plays Vegas in concert, from time-to-time. Miss Piggy seems larger-than-usual in this film. Note her extended proboscis (snout)! I love this film which is an unabashed send-up of 'Babes-In Arms' (Let's put on a show.) similar to 'Muppets From Manhattan.' Although Charles Durning is great as 'Doc Hopper' in a parody of 'Colonel Sanders', it also seems a bit 'off' for a kid's movie. But then, Jim Henson always did the unique and unusual, didn't he? The DVD transfer by Disney has some issues: uneven and thin sound quality at times. It will probably play better on 5.1 sound system. A few images are grainy or off-focus. Extras: No extras at all except for a short and disappointing 6-minute featurette.The film is much more fun than the recent revival film, 'The Muppets' which is a valiant effort, but seems too sad at times, as it portrays the Muppets as 'has-beens' from another era. This is the original Muppets in their prime, with their best material, and in top form. Waka! Waka!
I have always loved The Muppets. Though most children's entertainment then wasn't that likable, The Muppet's was. The Muppet's are very, very funny. They are probably the most likable children's characters ever. Not only did The Muppets have their own show. They also have starred in many films. from The Muppet's Christmas carol to The Muppet's treasure Island. The first Muppet's movie, The Muppet movie, was also, like the show and the other films, excellent.The Muppet movie is about how they all got started. Kermit the frog used to live in a swamp. Until one day a movie executive tells him that there are auditions for frogs in Hollywood. So Kermit takes off for Hollywood. Along the way he runs into lots of people such as Fozzie Bear, Gonzo the great, and Miss Piggy. Also, an evil man is trying to capture Kermit.All of the Muppet films are highly enjoyable. I mean they are all very funny. This film has many film appearances. Such as Steve Martin, Mel Brooks, Elliot Gould, Carol Kane, Richard Pryor, and Orson Welles. The Muppet films are all very enjoyable. I hear that Jason Segel is going to star in one soon. I can't wait to see it.
Jim Henson as Kermit, Dr.Teeth, Rowlf and Waldorf.Frank Oz as Fozzie, Piggy and Animal.Jerry Nelson as Floyd Pepper, Robin the Frog, Lew Zealand and Crazy Harry.Richard Hunt as Janice, Statler,Beaker and Scooter.Dave Goelz as Gonzo, Dr.Hunnydew and Zoot.Charles Durning and Mel Brooks.cameos by Steve Martin, Carol Kane, Orson Welles, Bob Hope, Richard Pryor and others.This is the first Muppet movie of the billion others that came out, and is also the best, by far! This deals with Kermit the frog going on a trip to Hollywood and meeting the other characters along the way. This movie, along with being already good, has excellent songs performed by the Muppets, including Rainbow Connection, Can You Picture That?, Moving Right Along and others. This movie, unlike the other Muppet flicks, carries a strong sentimental value to me. It's such a nice movie. Also noted is it's many cameos featuring Steve Martin, Mel Brooks and a dozen others. It's really one of the best family films out there today!my rating-A plus. 109 mins. rated G.
A bunch of full-length movies featuring the Muppets, created by Jim Henson & Co, have been made, but 'The Muppet Movie' was the first one of them all, and the first in the original trilogy, which also features 'The Great Muppet Caper' and 'The Muppets Take Manhattan'. It was released seven years before I was born, so I obviously didn't get to see it at the time (nor did I get to see its two successors when they were first released). However, I saw a lot of the Muppets during my childhood, mostly after Henson's premature death in 1990. I finally got around to seeing this movie for the first time around the mid-nineties, after hearing the soundtrack. Unsurprisingly, I liked it at the time, and revisiting it in recent years hasn't exactly been disappointing.One day, while Kermit the Frog sits in a swamp with his banjo after singing 'Rainbow Connection', a Hollywood agent named Bernie comes by in a boat and urges him to pursue a career in Tinseltown. Kermit takes his advice and goes west. He soon meets Fozzie Bear, an unsuccessful stand-up comedian in a restaurant, and convinces him to come along. The frog is also noticed by Doc Hopper, the owner of a frog leg restaurant chain who wants Kermit to be his mascot. As a frog, Kermit is disgusted by this, so he refuses and leaves with Fozzie. On their road trip across the country, Kermit and Fozzie meet other Muppets who join them, including Miss Piggy (who soon becomes Kermit's love interest) and Gonzo. Unfortunately, as they all try to make their way to Hollywood, Doc Hopper, assisted by Max, is willing to do anything to force Kermit to become his restaurant chain's mascot, so Kermit finds himself in increasing danger! One thing many people praise this film for is the songs, and I can understand why. There is, of course, the Oscar-nominated 'Rainbow Connection' at the beginning, and more good tunes follow, such as Kermit and Fozzie's catchy road song, 'Movin' Right Along', and 'I'm Going to Go Back There Someday', a poignant ballad sung by Gonzo. 'Never Before, Never Again', the song Miss Piggy sings when she first sees Kermit, is the only one I would consider rather weak, and their romance seems awfully sudden. The Muppets in this movie are generally lovable, just like they are on TV, and some of them provide a lot of the humour, including Fozzie, making his first appearance in the film hopelessly trying to entertain people in a restaurant with his stand-up, and, well, if you're familiar with these famous Muppets, you should know what to expect from each of them. Some of the live actors who appear briefly in the film can also be funny, such as Dom DeLuise as Bernie the Agent and Steve Martin as the 'Insolent Waiter.' Also, it's not 100% comedy. There are serious parts of the film which they also did well.Watching this original Muppet movie again this year was my first time watching any of them since seeing 'Muppets from Space' (one of the Muppet movies made after Henson's death, released in 1999) for the first time last year. I was very disappointed when I saw that film, which had never happened before when I watched any film or TV show featuring the popular puppet characters! Not only is that movie not very funny, I also think it's a tad too dark and cruel for the Muppets, as I stated in my review of it! However, I can't say I think the same of any of that movie's predecessors, including this one, released twenty years earlier. 'The Muppet Movie' seems to be the most popular of the bunch, and since it has so much to like, not just for kids, that's understandable. I highly doubt there's much left to say about 'The Muppet Movie' that hasn't been said at some point in the past thirty years, but today, it remains good family entertainment.
Who doesn't love the muppets?! Impossible it is to watch them without getting some kind of warm, fuzzy feeling inside. So, I guess what's important is that this movie seemed to very successfully capture what makes the muppets so special. I don't remember much about the details of the plot but the various moments and characters in the film I recall quite fondly. In fact, there was quite a nostalgic atmosphere to the whole movie but without being self-conscious in any bad way. Refreshing for someone who possibly gets too hung up on meticulous details and technique; the 'magic' transcends all that other stuff. 'Tis indeed what movies are made of.So, how does the film achieve these things? Hmmm, nice question! Stumped am I? Let's see. Really, I feel like it's quite simple. The filmmakers believe in their material and don't take themselves too seriously in the process. I probably wouldn't say the film has many truly inspired moments, but it does have a certain life to it (that funnily enough a great many 'real people' movies lack). A zest. You really want to believe in these funny little people and their adventures. They also have a certain innocence about them that makes them all the more endearing.Generally I get the impression that the people that made the movie just weren't afraid to try whatever felt right to them at the time which gives the whole thing quite a loose feel. Kind of like a really accessible and enjoyable extended jazz session. Lots of talent, little predictability and plenty of warm personalities coming through. The cameos were of course a bunch of nice surprises for instance. Maybe I don't feel I have much to say about it because I was half-asleep when I saw it (and/or as I write this review). Anyway, I'm sort of semi-repeating myself here but I really liked the sense of family the movie had. Full of love I suppose you might say. Again, a feeling of nostalgia comes to mind which not many films manage to achieve so effectively or effortlessly.And to repeat myself once more, one of the film's best charms is its very relaxed and welcoming atmosphere. Like the Nathaniel Hawthorne quote about happiness being (like) a butterfly, so The Muppet Movie greatly succeeds partially by not seeming to try to do so. Same with beauty being best undiscovered or untouched or unforced or something like that. Anyway, if that sounds sappy, I also reckon it was pretty hilarious.So, all in all, this movie was very funny, touching and difficult not to smile along to. Plus it features lots of great music! Highly recommended to all humans, both the young and the young at heart.
21 years, 5 more muppet movies, and several Presidents later, this movie remains a classic and, in my opinion, the best of all Muppet Movies.The entire family can enjoy this movie, and that's lost in current movies. Something that you would take your 6 year old to wouldn't really hold your interest, and vice-versa. The characters are in danger, but no real harm can be done. The characters are in stressful situations, but they don't shout profanities. What less would you expect from the beloved Muppets?I find myself cracking up at the running gags and little implied jokes in this movie. The funniest are heard under a character's breath. Not only that, but it has an absolutely inspired musical score. Never since this movie have the Muppets shown such a broad range of emotions through their music.All the Muppet movies are good. Even Muppets from Space, the least entertaining of the lot is fun. But if you want a really good time, get the original. You can watch it over and over...
Jim Henson's The Muppet Movie is a charming, funny and brilliant film that can be watched AND enjoyed by adults and kids.  I feel this is my favorite childhood film because it combines great characters, great story, and great wit that it is irresistable.  The plot involves Kermit the frog (puppeteered and voiced by Henson) in his odyssey across America to follow his dream in Hollywood.  Along the way, he meets Fozzie Bear, The Great Gonzo (my favorite), Miss Piggy, Rolf, and DR. Teeth and the electric mayhem.
This film has so many good things I can't even say them.  But it is memorable and every time I think of a puppet or muppet, I will think of this film.  Look for cameos from Mel Brooks, Dom DeLouise, Paul Williams, Madeline Kahn, Bob Hope, Richard Pryor, Steve martin, Edgar Bergen (and Charlie McCarthey), Elliot Gould, Carol Kane and the great Orson Welles. Excellent and spectacular, one of the best films of the 70's. A++
Y'know, it's very interesting watching this... half the people involved with it are now dead...Anyways, it's been a long time since I've watched anything Muppet related, but this stuff is pure gold. I'm a great fan of puns, and this movie has them quite well placed, but one of the amazing aspects of it is its pacing: it's not really high-speed children's pacing where the filmmakers just randomly decide to move the story along without giving the character's depth, it's just kind of moves along with the characters wherever they want to go.Kermit the Frog is just an awesome character. His voice and the expressions on his puppet-face are fantastic. But above all, he points out why he's popular--'he can sing and make jokes too!'--but more appropriately why he's so endearing--he, without any effort, inspires everyone to search for their dreams. In the meantime, he also has to deal with himself, which is an uncommon theme in family movies.It also contains quite an ensemble of comedians making appearances here and there, some to great effect, others to a little less (I think Mel Brook's part was just a bit overplayed, do you?). Some parts of the film are just kind of odd. But it's highly imaginative and takes itself to the same destination from a very different direction.Moving right along...--PolarisDiB
Growing up as a kid one of my favorite things was Jim Henson's Muppets especially Kermit the Fog, I enjoyed the show had Muppet storybooks and action figures and even plush toys. So I just recently for the first time watched something of old pop culture history that being 1979's 'The Muppet Movie'. I must say too that the film was wonderful! The writing and story was just great the film is very funny and it gives a good message in the end plus it's supported by appearances from many top notch stars. This film shows how the Muppets began their rise to fame as they showed it in their own way by doing their own movie! Remember the song dreams begin with a rainbow! Kermit has a fateful meeting with a big time talent agent and it's then that his hopes of becoming a star has him on a journey to Hollywood! Along the way on his journey for show business he meets his usual cast and gang of characters Fozzie the Bear(the bad comedian)the Great Gonzo(chicken)and the prim and proper Miss Piggy as all too have big dreams on the way out to California. Now enter the drama and road encounters with Doc Hooper(Charles Durning)who as a fast food mogul wants Kermit to promote his French fried frog leg franchise, yet probably Kermit is gonna be a cooked frog! Along the way the journey is funny and entertaining with fun and crazy mishaps and it's guided along with the witty lines and musical songs including the hit 'The Rainbow Connection'. Plus it's supported just fine by appearances from legendary stars like Mel Brooks, Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Dom Deluise, and Orson Welles. And in the end it proves a special and important message that as you see the Muppets learn that real life can actually be in the form of a movie. And really with your thoughts and dreams you can make your own movie. Overall a good classic that both adults and children will laugh with and enjoy.
There's just something pleasantly memorable about a little green frog singing and playing a banjo in the middle of a swamp.  The opening scene is a wonderful introduction for this truly excellent film. 
My favorite of the Muppet movies, this has excellent songs, some truly funny running gags and one-liners (and some that are absolute 'groaners', but they're still deserving of a chuckle.), and a fun group of Muppets and celebrity cameos.  Jim Henson is, and always will be, the definitive voice of Kermit.  The film itself is very gentle in tone without getting too syrupy, and truly entertains all the way through.With all of the 'quality' children's programming that comes out these days, I can't help but wonder why more 'family' films aren't actually made for the entire family like this film was.  This is a real keeper, although it seems a little hard to find at times in the stores.
Like all the Muppet movies, this movie is aimed at children. But that doesn't mean it's only for children. Heck, kids probably won't even get most of the jokes. The Muppet Movie is probably the best of the series. This one had a certain charm to it that the others never realized. This movie had great songs and humor for all ages. To think, people thought the Muppets wouldn't succeed on the big screen.
I am 17, and a biased Muppet fan, and while I love Treasure Island, Christmas Carol and Great Muppet Caper, The Muppet Movie absolutely deserves to be up there with the best of them. It is enormously entertaining, thanks to the snappy script by Jerry Juhl, and the film looks lovely, with some beautifully staged musical numbers. Speaking of the songs, I really liked them, sure they aren't the best song score out of the Muppet franchise, but they were very nice to listen to, especially Never Before and Rainbow Connection. Rainbow Connection is now one of my favourite Muppet songs along with First Time It Happens and Professional Pirate. The Muppets as usual were fantastic, particularly the always delightful Miss Piggy, and the chemistry between Kermit and Fozzie was great. And what a brilliant human cast- from Bob Hope to Orson Welles, from Madeleine Kahn(the same wonderful actress who brought us hilarious movies like What's Up Doc?, Blazing Saddles and Clue) to Cloris Leachman, from Steve Martin to Richard Pryor, all of whom made memorable guest appearances, if careful not to overshadow the Muppets in a fantastic film. 10/10 Bethany Cox
why are there so many songs about rainbows? as a relatively committed cynic, i find that man cannot live by purely edgy and cynical entertainment alone. too much cynicism and negativity can get shoved down your throat as much as optimism gets pushed at people. in a day and age when so much in entertainment is like 'South Park' or 'Family Guy' and 'The Simpsons', sometimes you need a change of pace. sometimes even things that seem trendy or novel and new, get tiresome and old news.don't get me wrong. i really like 'South Park' and 'The Simpsons', but i've watched so much of that kind of thing for a couple of decades and occasionally i like a change from all the nihilism and cynicism and find myself watching a old Disney film or something by Jim Henson with the Muppet puppets. i've grown a lot since my early days. even in my twenties i was unrealistically optimistic about things and life and people. well, eventually people and events in life changed all that. more than likely it was somewhat for the best. you can't always try to see the good in everything. that outlook has no balance. sometimes you need to address the negative in your environment, other people, and yes, in your self. there's a old saying that you can go to the other extreme of something, you meet your other self coming back around. but i don't think anything ever gets solved by being too negative or too optimistic.if you have seen Jim Henson's wonderful puppet Muppet fantasy 'Labyrinth', you might remember the characters at the end who tell the teen ager 'if you ever need us time and again...', well that's the essence of the Muppets and Disney for all adults, if ever you need those things from childhood that were fun, friendly, and made you feel safe, you should feel free enough to call on them. as long as you bring yourself back into reality to address serious matters. like other people.as far as the Muppets and the 'rainbow connection' go, it's all good. i don't even think Disney has the track record of flawless perfection the Jim Henson 'experiance' has. the Muppets and Henson never offend, but they also entertain effortlessly without violence and grotesque crudity and imagery.i'm always surprised how well the original film holds up decade after decade. i hadn't seen it in a while, and i was reminded again what a timeless classic it is. partly due to the memorable genius of Paul Williams as well as Henson.i also think that younger generations should be reminded that Jim Henson and the Muppets did not start with Disney. Disney simple acquired the Jim Henson genius decades later through monopoly purchase. i love Disney, but i hate the Disney trend for engulfing the works and talents of others. it would be a sad day if the genius of the Muppets becomes synonymous with Disney and Jim Henson was forgotten. give credit where credit is due, and all this is due to the incredible whimsical genius of Jim Henson.
No contest, this is the best Muppet movie, followed closely by 'The Great Muppet Caper' and 'The Muppets Take Manhattan.' Once Jim Henson and Richard Hunt died, the Muppet movies naturally lost their steam.'The Muppet Movie' is a prequel to the wonderful Muppet Show, explaining how the Muppets first got together. There just couldn't be a better plot.
(spoilers ahead) It starts off with Kermit playing a beautiful number on his banjo, and once a Hollywood agent remarks that he's got enough talent for the silver screen, Kermit hops on his bike (a classic scene) and heads West. Shortly thereafter he becomes horrified at the sight of a fast food place that serves frog legs! After Kermit pairs up with Fozzie, Doc Hopper, owner of the fast food chain, offers Kermit a job as a spokesfrog for the restaurants. Naturally, Kermie declines, and a frantic chase for the frog happens throughout most of the movie. Along the way Kermit and Fozzie meet many other familiar faces, and they've got to act fast if they want to make it to the audition!As usual with the Muppets, everything is spectacular. From the sharp humor to the elaborate sets and puppetry, everything shines like a star. If you love the Muppets or are a beginning fan, check out 'The Muppet Movie'! You'll be glad you did.
If you haven't seen it, go forth and correct this oversight.  Then come back and read this.  The best word I can think of for how I still feel about TMM is 'fond'.  Between vast improvements in special effects and changing ideas about how to make movies ostensibly for children, TMM may look a little weatherbeaten.  Nevertheless, it still fits like a favorite hat and keeps getting better with age.  Cameos and innuendo for the adults, wacky and, (dare I use the word), zany adventures for the kids (of all ages), and what is to me still the greatest ensemble cast ever assembled.  No, I don't mean the people.  Heartbreak, wonder, panic, music, and Electric Mayhem all come together in a film -- no, a movie -- that may not be perfect, it's just that there's really nothing wrong with it at all.
The Muppet movie is an instant classic. I remember the opening scene with the bird's eye view of the swamp and Kermit starting into (in my opinion) the most loved song in the history of songs. At this point my mom would always sing along with Kermit.Watching this title as a young adult it makes me smile. I can still sing along to my heart's desire. Like many Muppet films there are in jokes for adults that are( In my opinion) still funny today. My favorite line of all time is actually from this film, it's the last line spoken by my green, goggle eyed hero Kermit 'Life's like a movie , Write your own ending'. That's what I intend to do! Thank you Jim Henson.
This is such a great movie.  I loved it as a kid, and while I went through a nostalgic period recently I found this treasure and gave it the old test of time.  First viewing, absolutely fell in love with these songs - this has to be some of the best movie music ever!  That had be coming back for a repeat viewing or two, and the rest of the film really grew on me.  Now, I can definitely say it is one of my all-time favorite movies.  The Muppets are really great, and this movie catches them at in their prime, right off the height of the unforgettable 'Muppet Show'.Essentially, it's a road movie.  Kermit the Frog leaves the swamp and heads to Hollywood, and naturally his lone journey becomes a giant group trip as he acquires a bear named Fozzie, a thing named Gonzo, a glamorous hog we all know as Miss Piggy, Rowlf the Dog, a big scary monster with a giant heart (Sweetums), and the greatest foam-based rock'n'roll band ever built, Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem.  Add unforgettable music, numerous celebrity cameos, some of the oldest puns in the book, and a cameo by Big Bird - and you have one great piece of cinema, now one of the most treasured videos I own.If your a fan of Jim Henson's Muppets, this is a must-see if you haven't already.  Fans of movies in general have gotta love it as well.  Probably the Muppets' greatest big screen venture to date.
First of all i'd like to say that this movie is the greatest thing that ever happened to mankind. It is the best out of all the excellent Muppet movies, and every other movie out there! so BOO-YA  for jim Henson!This Movie is the first of all the  Muppet movies and the best. (boo ya) It's about a Frog (kermit) who tries to make to hollywood. along  with the awesome friends he meets on the way comes a couple of the greatest songs ever made that are bound to become classics, including 'the rainbow connection'in conclusion i would like to say that watching this movie was the greatest thing EVER!. If you havn't already seen it, then get off your computer and get you tushy to your nearest video store!!! (if they don't have the muppet movie, i'd sue them BIG TIME )
An inspired combination of slapstick, music, vaudeville and charm, The Muppet Movie takes all the now familiar characters away from the Muppet Theatre where humans were the minority, and plonks them right among the (almost) real world.We meet Kermit alone in his swamp singing beautifully to himself, and after a chance meeting with the frog, a crocodile and a movie agent – yes it's that kind of film – Kermit is inspired to try to forge his own path in showbusiness.Along his journey to Hollywood he meets aspiring stand up comedian Fozzie, amateur stunt man Gonzo and a group of zany musos known as The Electric Mayhem. He also finds that romantic sparks fly when he meets a diva pig with delusions of grandeur.That's the core part of the initial Muppet group identified, the slightly awry element arrives in the form of a fat, sweaty guy in a white suit named Doc Hopper, who just happens to sell frog's legs as cuisine. He takes a shine to Kermit's pins and decides that he simply must have them to promote his wares, whether Kermit agrees or not.The remainder of the film is essentially an extended chase sequence as Kermit and the gang hightail it towards Hollywood with Doc Hopper and his toadying (no pun intended) assistant close behind.And this to me is the problem with the initial Muppet Movie, the best parts are the simple times, Kermit sitting on the log singing Rainbow Connection without a care in the world, the awkward but undeniable chemistry between pig and frog, the stoner-ish hep dialogue between the members of the Electric Mayhem, the stand-up bear who is terrible at stand up.They kinda lost me when the film veered into 'eating the primary character's legs' territory. They definitely lost my four year old in the looming torture scene, and nearly killed the poor boy when the Frog assassin clad all in black and looking decidedly evil showed up. (I really didn't remember these things from my previous viewings.) Despite these depressing and out of place sequences there is still a lot to love about the first Muppet Movie, the constant breaking of the fourth wall is already obvious, the general funkiness of the Electric Mayhem and the timelessness of Kermit's tunes, the cheesy jokes that are so bad that you can't help but smile – especially when delivered with such innocence and charm by a handpuppet the inclusion of several big name cameos, none of whom for a moment let on that they are conversing with a sock, yet some of whom still manage to out-ham the very same talking puppets.The Muppet Movie finds a bunch of frogs, pigs, bears and whatevers coming to terms with their own existence, growing into their own skin and fur. Over the years some peripheral characters became more central, and others stepped back to spout occasional quips when required.Most of all this film showed that there was entertainment value to be found in these talking socks, and that people of all ages could enjoy their shenanigans guilt free.Final Rating – 7 / 10. 'Mature thematic elements' aside, this is a fine intro to the Muppetational world.
From my earliest viewings of Sesame Street to this absolutely wonderful childhood memory,The Muppets were and always will be part of who I am today. The Muppet Movie is not just for kids,it's for kids of 'all' ages. All of us out there that have been able to stay in touch with our 'inner child',can always rent,buy or (from the library) check out this movie and feel good again. Not only that,we can feel what it means to be a loving caring person,all from these lovable characters created by the late-great Jim Henson,whom I wish was still with us.The film is simply about these things...Finding your destiny in life by not giving up on one's dreams,realizing everyone needs someone as a friend and great things happen when friends work together (not to mention just being allowed to laugh at something genuinely funny! Nothing made me laugh harder than Miss Piggy and her karate,'Hiiii-yaa!! LOL. ..or the running gag,'That's a myth'. 'What?' 'Myth,myth!' Woman:'Yes?'The film works because the story is about Kermit and all his Muppet friends and how they all eventually band together to share one dream. The songs are great (thankfully not corny like in some kid films.) The celebrity guests are great too! Every kid should see this,over and over! In closing,I want to say that the song 'Rainbow Connection' should have won the Oscar for 'Best Original Song' in a 1979 film. I mean,who remembers the song from,'Norma Rae' ?!
Looking back on Jim Henson's works years after his death is like taking a look back into another time. For unlike most so-called creative types attempting to sell to, or worse yet cynically exploit, children nowadays, Jim never seemed to really forget what it was like to be a child. And if there ever was a moment in which he demonstrated this, Labyrinth aside, it is 1979's Muppet Movie. Filmed as an allegorical story about how Henson came to work in children's television as a puppeteer and ended up with a half-hour show of his own on primetime television, The Muppet Movie ends up an affirmation of everything more progressive, understanding sorts would say to children who did not quite meet the expected norm during the 1980s. And as we enjoy the fruits of an era in which we are gagged and bound from speaking about anything lest someone might get offended, the open celebration of difference or diversity that formed a large part of The Muppet Show is on offer here. I have said it in other comments, but I must say it here. A great light in the world went out the day Jim Henson died.The Muppet Movie begins with its cast sitting down to see the premiere of what were about to see for the next eighty or so minutes. In short, precise strokes, we are introduced to the major players as well as some of the minors. And when the story proper begins, boy are we given a great song to bring us into the moment. The Rainbow Connection painted both a beautiful and sad image of what the Muppets, especially Kermit, were. These were not just a bunch of felt puppets with singular personalities who combined to put on a show. They were living things based upon a part of all of us, only writ so much more boldly than we are used to. As each Muppet was introduced to us in turn, we saw another reflection of part of ourselves, and of course the children in the audience would respond differently to each character. Hence, everyone had a favourite. When Animal appeared behind a drum kit and attempted to eat a cymbal, I knew I had found one of mine. Nowadays, I am more of a Swedish Chef fan, but what the hey.Complementing the characters was a string of musical numbers that further developed their motivations and personalities. Can You Picture That? shared an insight into Dr. Teeth and his band as well as the creative soul of Henson. But the most relevant song to me was Gonzo's number, asking what he is and where he came from. Many of us would spend a lifetime gazing into the stars and, like Gonzo, saying we knew we would be going back there someday. Not that all the songs were so deadly serious, of course. Fozzy and Kermit share a number after they decide to combine their talent (or lack thereof) and hit the road. If any evidence were required that present-day 'musicians' have lost the ability to use the pop structure to create something listenable, this number would be it. Never before, and never again, would the group dynamic of a cast and the music so perfectly complement one another. With the puppeteers and voice actors so perfectly on top of their game, the human cast had a lot to live up to.Which makes it all the more amazing that the human element also lived up to their end of the deal. Cameos literally pepper the film, with everyone from Steve Martin to Telly Savalas popping in to offer their support. Even Richard Pryor, the last man one would expect to see in a film about the Muppets, appears to set up a hilarious moment. Mel Brooks' cameo is just as disturbing to me as an adult as it was when I was a small boy, but I suspect that is because Henson knew why I would find it disturbing now. The big acting strength, though, comes from Charles Durning, who as Doc Hopper embodies everything both Henson and his audience determined to resist. At every junction, Hopper comes to either offer Kermit the chance to sell out and betray his own kind. Or perhaps offer stops being the right word when Hopper's attempts to ensure Kermit's compliance become progressively more forceful and violent. The whole thing is one big metaphor for how every artist has his heart broken by the world.Of course, Animal also shows up to remind us that just because our friends are not sweet and cuddly does not make them any less of a friend. In point of fact, Animal turns out to be the best friend that Kermit has in that moment. And that has been the core message of every good show or film Henson has been involved in ever since. That shunning or dismissing others simply because of linguistic or cosmetic differences could literally be the worst mistake one ever makes. There can be little doubt that in today's world where a moron in a purple suit can tell my sons they are not good if they do not have good feelings for fifteen seasons and still not come under serious investigation by child welfare authorities, Henson's creature workshop could never have got off the ground. To misquote the album title, daring to be stupid is one thing, but enforcing the choice upon others is another matter. The Muppet Movie demonstrates how Henson dared to ask us all to think, both inside and outside of the proverbial box. There will never be another entirely like him, but he never would want us to stop trying.Therefore, The Muppet Movie is the epitome of a ten out of ten film. If we were to send a film out into the cosmos to prove to intelligent life that we are worth more than being obliterated, this would be it.
The first Muppet movie is by far the best. None of the subsequent films, particularly those made after Jim Henson's death, can match this movie's creativity, charm, and magic. The story to this one is a retelling of how the Muppets met. Kermit, persuaded by Dom DeLuise, sets out on a trip to Hollywood to become a star. Along the way he meets Fozzie, Piggy, and the rest of the Muppets. They are pursued by Doc Hopper (Charles Durning), who wants Kermit to be the spokesman for his chain of restaurants specializing in frog legs. It's very funny with some great songs and celebrity cameos. The cameos don't bother me but then I know who all of those people are. I don't know if many younger first-time viewers would recognize some of them or how much that might matter in the long run. I think of this movie as something that can be enjoyed by young and old alike and I hope I'm right. It would be sad if kids today couldn't enjoy it because it's not as flashy as the more recent Muppet movies or the celebrity cameos are dated. It's far better than those movies on every level.
I have not seen this movie since 1979 when I was a teenager.  I grew up with the Sesame street muppets and later realized how much effort and time went into bringing these characters to life.  Jim Hensen was a genius and master muppeteer.  When I watched this movie the other day it took me back in time when I was younger and things seemed so much simpler.  For this bit of time travel I rate this movie a 10.The plot line explores how Kermit goes from the swamp to Hollywood.  The laughs and gags are classic muppetism.  I am glad these films are still around for the next generation.  I hope I never out grow the magic of the muppets.
If I rate the film maybe a bit high, you can blame it on sentiment. This is one of the first movies that I remember seeing and totally loving. I saw it at the drive-ins here in California in the late 70s. I was already a big fan of 'The Muppet Show' on TV so I was primed for the movie, and the movie did not disappoint. Basically it takes the whole absurdist ethos of the Muppet show and transports it from vaudeville into a road movie. Kermit the Frog is on a quest to become famous; not because he wants to take champagne baths and ride in a private jet, but because he wants to 'make millions of people happy.' Of course.Along the way he picks up all his beloved muppet friends, most endearingly Fonzie Bear who he meets at a seedy bar doing stand-up. They sing 'Movin' Right Along', a song that has always charmed me with its upbeat melody and its theme of friendship and shared discovery. He also encounters enough Hollywood movie stars to fill a Stanley Kramer movie, including comedy luminaries like Richard Pryor, Steve Martin, Edgar Bergen, Milton Berle, and Mel Brooks. Brooks in particular has a rather dull bit, and you are left feeling that Henson could have cut a few of these cameos out if he wasn't afraid of offending the stars. Anyway, as befits a road trip movie like this the very first person he meets is Dom DeLuise.The ending is one of the more odd examples of literally breaking down the 4th wall that you will find in any 'children's' movie. The Hollywood dream seems to be crumbling all about them, when a real rainbow pierces the Hollywood set with its authentic joy and mystery. I'm sure this was meant to relate to some of Jim Henson's own personal or spiritual experiences.This is the best movie with Muppets by a long shot. If you or anyone else was wondering why the Muppets were so popular back in the 70s, considering how poor the movies have been for the last few decades, I think this film has at least aged well enough to provide a clue.
With the appearance of another Muppet film at the box office, it's time to go back and review the old ones. This is the original 1979 movie, not the 2012 relaunch. I believe this to still be the best of all the Muppet films, if for no other reason than it tells the story of the Muppets, not tell a story with Muppets IN it. It is a magnificent introduction to all of these great characters, or course focusing on Kermit, and I can't help but revert back to the seven-year-old me that fell in love with a frog and a bear and a pig and a dog and a....whatever, and feel the same excitement I had back then. The jokes remain as funny or corny as they were then and there's still all the heart and soul that Jim Henson and company breathed into them 35 years ago. And all the great songs! The only thing that is sadly aged is the cameo appearances of movie stars of the time, none of which my children recognize or have any idea who they are (okay, they know Steve Martin from the 'Pink Panther' films and Mel Brooks as 'Yogurt', but most are unknown to them). Always worth a repeat or reminder viewing. 9/10
The first feature length Muppet Movie, and excepting maybe The Muppet Christmas Carol, the movie puppeteers the world over are still looking for as a guide. Disney has done the Muppets a dis-service and this movie proves it over and over again. Featuring classic comedians and guest star cameos, keeps to a simple but original plot, classic Muppet lame jokes, Paul Williams genius in song writing, and Electric Mayhem madness, and comes off with an amazing movie especially when you realize that the major cast are puppets. Only Croft has come close to Hensen's genius with puppets. Half of the fun today is playing is that cameo actor/actress still alive???? I can only hope Frank Oz and Dave Goelz and the rest of the surviving Muppeteers can somehow rescue and revive Kermit and Company from the deadly grasp of Disney.
This film is one of my fondest childhood memories. Seeing the Muppets (at the height of their popularity) heading Hollywood, singing and dancing, with Miss Piggy googely-eying her beloved Kermit, Fozzie Bear doing his best as everyone's manager, and a generous cast of 'extras' delivering a film that turned out to be 'okey dokey'.Kermit's melancholy ukulele number 'Rainbow Connection' was nominated for an Oscar that year, but was beat out by Norma Rae's 'It Goes Like It Goes'. I'll pick Kermit's song any day! Get the kids and enjoy this timeless fantasy...someday they'll find it, the rainbow connections, the lovers, the dreamers and me!
The Muppet Movie is a pure delight. I cant stop watching this movie. It has great catch phrases and one liners that will stick with you for years. A soundtrack to last a life-time. I consider Rainbow Connection to be a perfect song. Follow Kermit the Frog on his way to Hollywood. He is influenced to an audition for frogs wishing to become rich and famous. On the way he meets his future Muppet pals and a gaggle of legendary guest stars. This film has the last appearance of Edger Bergen and Charlie McCarthy. Kermit and pals must also doge Doc Hopper, a enterprising frog leg restaurant chain owner. The humor has a ridiculous charm. This is as close to Monty Python humor as an American writer can get. You will be beaming like a star all throughout the film. This film is a timeless and ageless classic. Add it to your collection now!!!
Too often it seems we run around in circles looking for things to satisfy our deepest yearnings- in music, in film, in life, whatever- only to find out, sometimes years later, that precisely what we wanted is right under our noses, or as the case may be, right in our past. The Muppet Movie was one of the first movies I remember seeing as a child, and it certainly enhanced my childhood and gave me a lot to think and dream about for a little kid, but the good news is that even now, it has lost nothing for me.
The Muppets have always had a tremendous and subtle sophistication about them-- it's the type of thing that Disney always shoots for and rarely perfectly gets- that cast of characters who for children are endearing and accessible, but for adults have a whole different dimension of wit and personality that is hard to come by for even human actors half the time. And yet every muppet in this movie posesses that- even Animal! In fact, the movie- where the Muppets seem to be doing battle with every bumbling human to come along and attempt to take advantage of them (usually Doc Hopper but occasionally the excellent cameo cast)- is a metaphor for what I'm talking about. At the end of the day, the only characters we really believe in are the Muppets, not the humans- the humans come across flatter, less imaginative, far less inspiring. Kermit's combination of an existential dilemma and drive to succeed within himself are still chock full of beauty and honor, even to someone long since past grammar school. It's easier to care deeply about these Muppets in this film than hundreds of real human protagonists I've seen on the big screen.And as for emotional power- there are some movies that will cheer you up when you're down, and then there are films that will under no circumstances let you be down no matter how hard you try. This movie is definitely in the second category. It seems to achieve this firstly by the excellent script and aptly placed, well-written songs (when was the last time you could say that about a children's movie?), and secondly, oddly enough, by the directorial feel of the movie. Its pacing, its rambling-down-the-road quality, and its cinematic embellishments (the coziness of the restaurant that Kermit and Piggy go to, the eerie comfort of the desert fire, the smoky comedy club) all create this sort of intangible warmth that just radiates right off the screen. I wish someone today could recapture that again.
So yeah, make sure your kids see The Muppet Movie. But don't commit the sin of growing out of it yourself. We miss you, Jim...
I would have been about 11 years old when this movie was first released. All these years later at 37 and I had no qualms hiring it on DVD. Great entertainment for all ages. And what about the song The Rainbow Connection? See:Why are there so many songs about rainbows And what's on the other side? Rainbows are visions, but only illusions, And rainbows have nothing to hide. So we've been told and some choose to believe it I know they're wrong, wait and see. Someday we'll find it, the rainbow connection, The lovers, the dreamers and me.Who said that every wish would be heard and answered When wished on the morning star? Somebody thought of that, and someone believed it, And look what it's done so far. What's so amazing that keeps us stargazing And what do we think we might see? Someday we'll find it, the rainbow connection, The lovers, the dreamers, and me.All of us under its spell, We know that it's probably magic...... Have you been half asleep? And have you heard voices? I've heard them calling my name. ... Is this the sweet sound that calls the young sailors? The voice might be one and the same I've heard it too many times to ignore it It's something that I'm s'posed to be... Someday we'll find it, the rainbow connection, The lovers, the dreamers, and me.Laa, da daa dee da daa daa, La laa la la laa dee daa doo...
'Why are there so many songs about rainbows, and what's on the other side?' Kermit poses this relatively simple double interrogative near the beginning of 'The Muppet Movie' while singing his signature song, 'The Rainbow Connection.' As time goes by, the question and the movie only gain profundity.I'm going to forgo the review of this movie as a children's comedy, but look at it instead as a classic for every generation to love with serious ideals and a heartwarming message that gains more warmth with each passing year.As the milestones in my own life come creeping up on me, I hear more and more the evocative strains of that elementary ditty, and realize that it can fit the soundtrack to anyone's life, because we all dream. And that is what this movie is about. It's not just a bunch of puppets-- it's a bunch of puppets having the strength to pursue their dreams, which is a good lesson for everyone.And while the humor and mirth of the film always feel good, they're not a fair judge of the movie. Only 'The Rainbow Connection' and the powerful emotions it will realize. And it all fits in: 'Rainbow Connection' *is* the Muppet Movie, and vice versa. It's existentialism meets children's entertainment-- there's no simpler way to describe it.
The Muppet Movie is a fantastic movie with a very well developed storyline that is sweet,very funny and filled with lovable characters.The film is packed with a ton of fun and laughs that the whole family will enjoy and also has many beautiful music numbers,of course the Rainbow Connection is a great song.The movie is the first of the many films starring the Muppets that follow,they are great films that have never failed to entertain me and bring me joy. The film is also packed with many well known celebrity cameos,and all of them are gold,my favourite would have to be Mel Brooks.Fans of the Muppet Show should definitely watch and will love the Muppet Movie.Kermit recalls how he decided to try and make it big in Hollywood and how he met all his friends who end up coming with him along the way.
Of course I love this movie! What's not to love about it? It's funny, it's musical, it's entertaining, it's emotional, it's everything that embodies the Muppets!In this movie we see how the Muppets got their start to stardom and fame; it's sort of a very loose parody of Jim Henson's start to fame, if I understand it right. Kermit the Frog enjoys his life in the swamp, but begins riding his bike to Hollywood after an agent tells him he should go and 'make millions of people happy.' From there, he runs into a number of characters who have the same dream of making it big in Hollywood: Fozzie Bear, The Electric Mayhem, Scooter, The Great Gonzo, Camilla the Chicken, Miss Piggy, Rowlf the Dog, Dr. Honeydew and Beaker, and others. Since this is the first Muppet movie, it began the tradition of including celebrity cameo appearances. We see Bob Hope, Richard Pryor, Steve Martin, Madeline Kahn, Carol Kane, Orson Wells, Jim Henson's wife, Jane, Edgar Bergen - the man who inspired Jim Henson to go into puppetry - and many other celebrities. My favorite cameo, though, is Big Bird! Yes, Big Bird is in this movie! 'I'm on my way to New York City to try to break into public television.' I love that line!So, why does this movie work so well? I think it goes back to the fact that the Muppets are giving us their own style of entertainment, rather than them trying to conform to something else. There are a lot of scenes in this movie that take place that, to be fair, don't really need to happen. They don't really move the story forward, but Jim Henson and his writers and producers knew just how to make this stuff work. Take the scene where Gonzo flies in the sky with the balloons. It's a nice scene, but does it get the gang to Hollywood any quicker? Not really. How about when they all get to Hollywood just to have the lady at the front desk tell them they can't come in? It lasts less than 2 minutes, and they get in anyway. Was it really worth it to have that moment there? Probably not. And with that, the ending is something straight out of a fairy tale. The Muppets go to Lew Lord and tell him they want to be rich and famous, and Lew Lord just grants their request just like that? There's nothing realistic about that! Had any of these scenes been done in any other movie by any other group of people or any other production studio, I would really hate them! But this talented group of people knew what to do to make it entertaining, delightful, and great. That's the magic of Jim Henson and his Muppets: he gives us something that normally wouldn't work, and makes it work so well that we'd come to love it! That takes a lot of great talent and creativity! The songs are other elements that don't add much to the simple plot of the movie, but, again, they're done so well here that we come to love and remember all of them! 'Moving Right Along,' 'Can You Picture That,' 'Never Before,' 'I Hope That Something Better Comes Along,' 'I'm Going to Go Back There Someday,' 'The Magic Store/Finale,' but, of course, everybody loves and remembers the Oscar-nominated classic, 'The Rainbow Connection.' They're beautiful, they're fun, and they're so very touching. They stay with us, in our souls! That is powerful! Everyone always talks about how funny the Muppets are, and that shows in this movie! But very rarely do you hear about the heartfelt moments as well. The Muppets remind you through the emotions they experience that they feel just like we feel. Kermit's overall objective in this movie is probably the best example of this. He doesn't want to go to Hollywood simply to become rich and famous, it's not as superficial as that. He wants to go to Hollywood because it's his dream. What Kermit wants more than anything is for his dream to come true. You really feel for him during the scene when he talks to his conscience. He actually begins doubting himself, saying he never promised he'd make it. I love his last line in that scene: 'I guess I was wrong when I said I never promised anyone. I promised me.' Kermit begins to believe in himself again, and is determined to make his dream come true. That's pretty deep! Again, it's not something as superficial as just making a lot of money. The magic of his dream comes from, as he shares with Doc Hopper, the fact that he shared his dreams with others and they shared the dream with him.With that, sidebar, was I the only one asking what's wrong with Doc Hopper? You're really going to spend time and energy tracking down one frog all over the country? Why not get another frog? Why not do something that doesn't harm frogs at all? This man is stupid.Once again we have great Muppet tricks that make us stop and ask how did they do that. If you look up the facts about this movie either on this website or on Wikipedia, you'll learn how the Muppets were able to drive. Everyone went crazy when they saw Kermit riding a bicycle for the first time! There's a lost episode of 'The Jim Henson Hour' that explains it if you're still curious. It's called 'Secret of the Muppets,' look it up on YouTube.Final thoughts: 'The Muppet Movie' is a great, fantastic film! It has everything you want a Muppet movie to have. This movie has been a favorite of mine since I was a kid, and I still love it now! Check it out, you won't be disappointed, folks! BOOYIKA!
Maybe it's my age, or maybe it was due to the fact that I was rarely allowed to watch children's television, but my early life was sadly without Jim Henson and his hugely successful creation The Muppets. Because of this, I've always felt somewhat reluctant, and almost undeserving, to tackle the Muppet movies, feeling that my lack of childhood experiences of Kermit, Miss Piggy et al with hamper my enjoyment of them, or I will somehow not 'get it'. Well, after 27 Muppet-free years, Marc swayed me into finally taking the plunge, and, I'm happy to say, The Muppet Movie was an amazing experience, and one that made me feel like I'd known the vast array of characters for years.After a chance meeting with a Hollywood agent, Kermit the Frog leaves the comfort of his swamp in order to travel to Hollywood for an audition. Yet he is pursued by fast-food chain store owner Doc Hopper (Charles Durning), who sees Kermit as the perfect face to head his advertising campaign to promote his failing French-fries frog legs business. Kermit has other ideas, and after a punch up in the El Sleezo bar, he escapes with Fozzie Bear (a-wacca-wacca!) and his Studebaker. Further down the road he picks up more eager passengers, such as Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem, the Great Gonzo, and Miss Piggy, who falls in love with Kermit after winning a beauty pageant.While the 'origin' movie is quite often the route that TV series take when taking the leap into movies, The Muppet Movie benefits from taking an almost classical take on the road movie. It is not about the destination, but the journey, and the journey is peppered from hilarious set-pieces, satirical swipes, and quite beautifully written (and performed) songs. The Muppets always appealed to all ages, and adults have the pleasure of enjoying many self-reflexive moments and audience awareness (Kermit turns to camera and says 'I hope you appreciate I'm doing all my stunts!'), as well as cameos from the likes of James Coburn, Mel Brooks, Bob Hope, Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Madeline Kahn, Elliot Gould, and Orson Welles.Amongst all the mayhem, there is also a quite beautiful moment in Gonzo crooning 'I'm Going to Go Back There Someday', recollecting his past in the sky and desire to return someday. 'Rainbow Connection' is also a great song, but my favourite musical moment has to be 'Movin' Right Along', gleefully sang by Kermit (on his banjo) and Fozzie - the movie really came to life for me here. It's moments like these that really make this movie special, and something that can hopefully still be cherished by modern consumerism-obsessed children (if they can pull themselves away from their i-Phone). Marc warned me that if this film didn't leave me feeling warm inside then there is no hope for me. Well, thankfully it did, so maybe there's hope for me yet.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
With The Muppets out on screens right now, I decided to rewatch the first feature that starred the late Jim Henson's creations for the movies-The Muppet Movie. This was pure entertainment from beginning to end especially with all those celebrity cameos that abounded with perhaps the most hilarious coming from Steve Martin and Mel Brooks. There was also an amusing and touching one from Edgar Bergen with his dummy Charlie McCarthy. Amusing because of what was said and touching because they were the inspiration for Henson's career and that Bergen would soon pass away afterwards which was the reason for the dedication at the end-'Dedicated to the memory and magic of Edgar Bergen'. Besides the mostly hilarious screenplay by Jerry Juhl and Jack Burns, there were also wonderful songs by Paul Williams and Kenny Ascher of which the most inspirational was 'The Rainbow Connection' as performed by Kermit the Frog at the beginning and which was later Oscar-nominated but lost to 'It Goes Like It Goes' from Norma Rae. Oh, and Charles Durning was a hoot as the villain. Now I think I'll go rewatch The Great Muppet Caper...
Director James Frawley gives us the first in a line of many Muppet movies with The Muppet Movie. The movie is about Kermit The Frog showing us a film about how the muppets not only met but got their start. The film follows Kermit, Fozzie, Gonzo, Miss Piggy, Rowlf, and Dr. Teeth and The Electric Mayhem going across the country to find their start in Hollywood. Meanwhile Doc Hopper played by Charles Durning is chasing after Kermit to use him as a spokes person for his new french fried frog leg restaurant. The film includes cameos from Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Bob Hope, Edgar Bergen(this is also his last film role),Elliot Gould, Big Bird played by Carrol Spinney and many more. The Muppet Movie is the first movie in a long time that has left me with a good feeling and a smile on my face. I definitely recommend The Muppet Movie.Rated G.1hr 35min/95min.****/****
This is a great movie, no matter how old you are. The humor works on many different levels and the puns are too numerous to count. The best part of the movie was Kermit and Ralph the Dog singing 'Can't Live With Them, Can't Live Without Them.' Once a year I grab my Muppet Movie laser disk, a couple cans of Foster's and sing along.
Who doesn't remember The Muppet Movie???Kermit the Frog is now an American culture icon. What child doesn't appeal to this character?As the first actual Muppet film, the movie simply called, The Muppet Movie did very well. Kermit takes a Hollywood agent's advice and goes out of his home swamp to respond to the ad. Along the way he meets up with a pig, a bear, chickens a rock band and a few other quality puppets. Watch for dozens of cameo appearances like Madaline Kahn, Steve Martian, Richard Pryor, Mel Brooks and several more. I grew up watching this movie and I loved it.
The Muppet Movie directed by James FrawleyKermit the Frog and friends relive the tales and stories of how they all came together.The Muppets star in their first feature film, bringing the magic they are known for to a bigger picture. The story is not too complex and is written as a prequel of sorts. The well written jokes appear as each character gets a worthy introduction. The cameos aren't just thrown in either, but written in as interesting characters, making one of the many peaks for our furry friends.
This is a movie that will brighten up your day, for sure. Kermit the Frog, is just an ordinary frog in his swamp, when a talent agent stops by and tells him that Hollywood is looking for frogs to be in movie (lol). On the way, Kermit meets Fozzie Bear, Miss Piggy, Gonzo and his chicken Camilla, Rowlf, The Electric Mayhem, Bunsen Honeydew and Beaker. But also trailing Kermit is the proprietor of a restaurant chain, Doc Hoppers French Fried Frog Legs. All things considered though, Kermit and the Muppets make it to Hollywood.This movie is recommended for everyone, young and old.It has some wonderful musical numbers, like 'The Rainbow Connection, 'I'm Going to go Back There Someday,' and 'Movin' Right Along.' The Muppets also use many forms of transportation in this movie. Kermit rides a bike, Fozzie drives a Studebaker, and another car, Gonzo takes flight with a bundle of helium balloons, (which is one of my favorite moments by the way ;) ), and Kermit and the rest of the Muppets finally go the rest of the way by the Electric Mayhem's bus (Dr. Teeth, Floyd, Janice, Scooter, and Animal); who meet up with them in the desert after Fozzie's car breaks down.Even some Sesame Street Muppets make cameo appearances (i.e. Big Bird is walking along on the road, on the way to NYC to break into public television). The end is also a very heartwarming moment. Every single Muppet created is in the final scene, along with a final 'Rainbow Connection' reprise.But those poor Muppets worked so hard on their movie set, then it all comes crashing down, and the camera explodes in a huge ball of sparks. You'd think everything is ruined and destroyed, But the rainbow comes shining through the roof at the end, and it all sums up the magic of this film, and you know everything will be all right.Perfect 10/10. Watch it, and you'll be enchanted by the fun and sadness of this movie.
I  know you are thinking why would anyone put the muppet movie in the top ten films of all time? Here's my proof... it stands the test of time. It is as funny if not funnier than the first time I saw it. It has the muppets and catchy little songs for children and then jokes and stars for adults. There is something for everyone. I am thankful that my parents had this movie when I was a child because it is responsible for so many positive childhood memories. I am also thankful that I didn't watch it for awhile because it was so funny when I started to get all the jokes that I didn't understand as a child. The whole movie starts to take on a completely different meaning. Go see it again or for the first time.
I can't help but feel so much for this movie, not only because of the talents of the Muppet performers -- but the message behind the film is priceless.  This movie is pure Hollywood! Kermit discovers in himself that he has something special, a talent that can make 'millions of people happy' -- what dreamer can't identify?  He makes his way across the country finding friends who share his dream. He is given the chance to 'sell out' doing French Fried Frog Legs commercials for a greedy businessman named Doc Hopper, but Kermit continually refuses. His scene alone in the desert gives me heartache as he contemplates the meaning of dreaming under a lost starry sky. Priceless songs by Paul Williams and cameos by some of Hollywood's most respected comedians, both older and new, give the movie a timeless quality. With all this heart and hope, it deserves much more praise than it ever gets.  It's so much a homage to the dreamer in all of us.
THE MUPPET SHOW was one of the best family shows ever, in that there was really something both kids and adults could enjoy. This film continues in the same vein, with silly slapstick for the young'uns and clever dialogue, weird in-jokes and tons of celebrity cameos for everyone else. Great music too!
This movie came out in 1979 just days before I was born! I am a lifelong Muppets fan, and I love this movie to this day. 'The Rainbow Connection' and 'Moving Right Along' are great songs. I still love Kermit and the gang (especially Dr. Teeth's band) and I think the critics Statler and Waldorf are hysterical!!! This younger generation has Barney and the Teletubbies, but give me my Muppets any day...
This is one kid's movie the adults love even more...it's got great songs, tons of humor, more celebrity cameos than can sanely be believed, and lots of wordplay, horseplay, and froglegs.  It's about everything and nothing, and is far better than anything the muppets have done before or since.
This was the first movie I saw on the big screen when I was 7 years old. And still when I  see this one on television I enjoy it as I did the first time... The songs, the funny dialogues....It's all supergiganticextraordinairy funny and sweet...... My kinda fun!!!
The film is well written and brilliantly acted out by the Muppets themselves.  The soundtrack contains some brilliant songs - 'Movin' Right Along' being the best.  The jokes are well executed and contain the kind of burlesque humour that viewers of The Muppet Show expect to see each week. Of all the Muppet films, this is definately my favourite.
Words really can't explain how much I love Jim Henson and his zany muppets. But, I'll try my best...This is my favorite muppet movie (appropiately titled 'The Muppet Movie') because it is both hilarious and endearing.  It doesn't sacrifice it's charm for the sake of being funny. It's wonderful and lots of fun.  All the cameo appearances are great, especially Orson Welles and Steve Martin 'Finest Wines of Idaho...excellent choice.'  And all the origonal muppets are great too:  Kermit, Miss Piggy, Gonzo, Scooter, the Electric Mayhem, Rowlf, Sam the Eagle, Lew Zealand, and most of all, Fozzie Bear, 'Would you consider a bear in a frog suit?'  The movie also has wonderful catchy tunes (whenever I go on a road trip I always sing 'Moving right along!')  I love this movie.
This is the most blindingly optimistic movie I have ever seen. It was released at a time when I was coming of age and didn't want to be seen by my peers going to a puppet flick - so I only caught it on video. 50 screenings later, it still works for me on so many levels; as a musical with excellent Paul Williams numbers; as a comedy with very impressive (and personal) cameo appearances; as a philosophical 'Hero's Journey' (Henson & Juhl deserve 'Joseph Campbell kudos' just as much as George Lucas!); and it is a wonderful touchstone to Jim Henson's career & life.Whenever I'm sick, or sad or need a little lift this film guarentees a smile and the hope for sunnier days ahead.
My 6 year old Daughter Julia liked the Muppet movie so much that she cried when we had to return it to the library. My Daughter Julias Artificial intelligence computer on the Planet Coaltrain said: 'Angel In Awe Command Post Daddy.' I am glad that your Artificial intelligence computer is an angel and a command post Julia. Since this is a holodeck my spaceship is probably orbiting your planet so we can talk all the time. The friendship between fozzie bears character and Kermit the Frogs character makes this a buddy movie. People my daughters age enjoy the cuteness of the muppets and the musical numbers. The cameos of people like Steve Martin and Bob Hope mean a lot to the parents. This was the first movie I rented on videotape in 1980. My sisters Becki and Shari and I watched it over and over again. The Presidents State of the Union address was a superlative speech yesterday. I think that selling Jim Hensons muppets rights to Disney was an important partnership for continuing Hensons dreams of entertaining children.
This is a delight. After we watched these guys on their own show, they became a part of us. So this had to be good. Well, it was. First of all, the plot is interesting. Kermit is heading for Hollywood, not knowing what's in store for him. Along the way, he encounters other Muppet notables, including main squeeze, MIss Piggy. Of course, as they progress toward their destination, there are frequent adventures. Each has its own charms. In addition to the wonderful events, we get some great songs. 'The Rainbow Connection' is an anthem for diversity. I can't really add too much to what others have said, but suffice it to say that this is pure delight. The Muppet animation is beyond the pale. Great movie. It's sad we have lost some of the people that brought this to us.
Kermit the Frog is happily living in the swamps. Bernie the Agent (Dom DeLuise) is lost and suggests World Wide Studios' open audition for frogs. Kermit decides to go to Hollywood and finds various friends along the way. Doc Hopper (Charles Durning) tries to get him to be the new spokesfrog for his chain of frog legs restaurants. It's a string of cameos and light-hearted fun.It's the first theatrical film for Jim Henson's Muppets. Other than the awkward frog legs restaurants, this is simple childhood joy. It's nice to see each group of Muppets get introduced. There's a lovely feeling for everybody. There are a few catchy songs. There is something joyous about watching these Muppets walking around. I don't really like the villain. Maybe they should have used another Muppet.
I have been a part of the Muppet experience since a very young age. The first Muppet production I watched was 'The Muppet Christmas Carol' from 1994. My grandfather, being a great fan of the Charles Dickens classic, was watched it and as I joined him, I was instantly transfixed. Then, I moved on to 'Muppet Treasure Island' and 'Muppets from Space' but I wasn't till a few years ago that I finally saw this classic. Back in the mid to late 70's, Jim Henson decided to make his successful new program, 'The Muppet Show', into a feature film. And that has helped the Muppets grow and has helped them become what they are today. This movie showed how the Muppet gang came together in a very entertaining and fun way. All of the main characters of the show, from Rowlf the Dog to Camilla the Chicken, and of course, Kermit the Frog, are all there along with a variety of songs. In addition, there are several cameos from stars of that time. Among my favorites are Steve Martin and, specifically, Mel Brooks. This is a great introduction for someone who is not familiar with the Muppets and is a must see for those who are.
First of all, before I start my review, I just read every review for 'The Muppet Movie' here and I can't believe that someone could give a negative review to a movie like this. (Fortunately there was only one.) I mean, I can understand how someone may not like 'Star Wars' due to the whole Sci-Fi genre, but to not like a movie starring some of the most lovable puppets in the history of mankind is almost sad. Okay, I will step off my soapbox now and review this movie.'The Muppet Movie' came out when I was seven. All of my friends wanted to see this as their birthday movie, so I think I saw it about four times in the first month in theaters.As a child many things attracted me to this and all the other Muppet movies & TV shows. The singing was probably the main one. Most of the songs in 'The Muppet Movie' are classics. From 'Rainbow Connection' to 'I'm Going to Go Back There Someday', they're entertaining and thought-provoking.As an adult I see 'The Muppet Movie' in almost a whole different light. Yes, the things that thrilled me about it as a kid are still there, but it's the little jokes and such that are just plain hilarious.I mean, when you think about it, Jim Henson is a sick man. Kermit is a frog and that is in love with a sweet pig that wears purple gloves and could karate chop you into two pieces. Fozzie is a stand-up comedian bear. Gonzo is a 'whatever' that is infatuated with chickens. Then you have two old guys that heckle, a piano-playing dog, a rock band with a maniac drummer, a Swedish chef that you can't understand and a number of other characters that are just plain eccentric.Yet, for these reasons and more, Henson has entertained millions of children and adults, giving us all something special to watch and remember him by. 'The Muppet Movie' will always remain in my heart for many reasons, but I think the biggest one is because it's a movie, unlike a lot of recent children's movies, that I feel comfortable to have my kids watch. Plus, I don't get bored out of my mind with jokes that are dumbed down to my kids' level.It's a great movie that is sure to be remembered forever.
If you haven't seen this film in a long time, or since you were a kid, WATCH IT AGAIN.  I forgot just how funny this film is.  The humor is brilliantly on two levels.  Children and adults can both enjoy this movie for different reasons.  I honestly cannot think of another film which made me laugh as much or as often as The Muppet Movie.  Watch it again for the first time. Possibly my favorite film ever!
this is one of best films Jim Henson had ever done! the plot is excellent, the muppets were brilliant along side an all-star cast! the songs were brilliant, especaily the 'Rainbow Connection', which well deserved the 1979 Oscar for Best Song, which it recieved, and 'I Hope that Something Better Comes Along' is my personal favourite! It doesn't matter if you're a muppet fan or not, children and adults will like it a lot and will remain a timeless family favourite!
I admit this one of the first movies I remember seeing, so I have mostly positive memories. At the time I enjoyed seeing the muppets and the message to follow your dreams.  Later on I saw that Jim Henson put a fair amount of effort by include jokes that both adults and kids would enjoy. For instance the joke, 'Turn left at the fork in the road' cracks me every time. This movie also has the talents of Telly Salvas, Edgar Bergman and his pupper 'Charles Mc Carthey' ;two actors who are sadly not with us anymore. So the movie is great for all kids and kids at heart in my opinion.
Kermit and his new found friends trek across America to find success in Hollywood, but a frog-legs merchant (Charles Durning) is after Kermit.I am not quite sure on how to rate this film... it has many great cameos, particularly of stars of that era (some of whom have since been largely forgotten, I fear). Mel Brooks is great, Orson Welles is great (despite his short appearance)... Bob Hope, Steve Martin, and more...And yet, I just feel like it never hits the highest notes. Sure, the puppetry was amazing and I much prefer it to CGI. But the Miss Piggy romance song? Terrible, terrible song and should probably have been cut -- it drags the pace down and is hard on the ears. And the plot is so simple, it is not much to speak of. So we have a good technical achievement here, but as far as a story goes, it is not much. The same film with actors instead of Muppets and this would have been forgotten.It has been a while since I have seen 'Great Muppet Caper' or 'Muppets Take Manhattan', but I feel like they were better films... even the new (2011) film may be a better film...
With the Muppet Show being a big hit on television, The Muppet Movie quickly followed but a non Henson company man (James Frawley) was tasked to direct which led to creative differences and a film that is a little distant from the hit television show.After meeting a Hollywood agent (Dom DeLuise) by chance, Kermit the Frog leaves his swamp to go to Hollywood. He is pursued by fast food mogul Doc Hopper (Charles Durning) and his henchman (Austin Pendleton) who wants Kermit to promote his failing frog legs business.What is essentially a road movie Kermit meets other Muppet characters such as Fozzie Bear in El Sleezo bar, Dr Teeth and the Electric Mayhem, the Great Gonzo and Miss Piggy.In a sense the film maps out how the Muppets formed and the film is a mixture of slapstick, star cameos, songs, comedic set pieces as well as taking satirical swipe at the commercialisation of modern times. The film has a surreal even Pythonesque appeal with humour directed at kids and adults but it does not always quiet come together but is still better than some sequels which had more direct control by the Henson clan.Lord Lew Grade pulled some favours as he enticed stars such as Telly Savalas, James Coburn, Milton Berle, Mel Brooks, Cloris Leachman, Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Madeline Kahn, Elliot Gould, Carol Kane, Bob Hope and even Orson Welles.
And so, we finally get to learn the origins of Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear, and the rest. Of course, 'The Muppet Movie' is more than a series of absurd gags (but make no mistake, there are quite a few of those). The main issue is friendship and standing up for what one believes in. Still, it's fun to watch Kermit elude the lascivious Doc Hopper (Charles Durning) and the Doc's meek assistant Max (Austin Pendleton) while meeting the rest of the Muppets on the way to Hollywood, and to spot the seemingly endless number of comedians in bit parts.OK, so we could be cynical and note that Jim Henson's work got excessively commercial after he died. But still, the movie is a perfect representation of Henson's original vision. And besides, how can you not like Steve Martin's performance as the waiter and Mel Brooks's performance as the scientist? 'The Muppet Movie' is one flick that you can't afford to miss! PS: director James Frawley is the son of William Frawley, who played Fred Mertz on 'I Love Lucy'
The Muppets visit World Wide Studios to watch what else but THE MUPPET MOVIE. Which to me is a wonderful way to show that they are extremely self-aware and really they do churn out a quite enjoyable movie. It is about Kermit leaving the swamps to take a shot on a audition brought to his attention by Bernie the agent (Dom DeLuise). They are looking for a frog in Hollywood. Along the way he meets up with Fozzie the Bear, Miss Piggy, Gonzo and many others to join his journey to Hollywood. But watch out! Doc Hopper (Charles Durning) wants Kermit to be the face of his frog legs restaurant until he wants Kermit's legs himself. Really it is like a road movie with endless cameos. Unfortunately to me most of the cameos really do nothing to move the film forward or hurt the picture, but in my opinion a few that do have a positive impact on the picture are Mel Brooks, Steve Martin and Orson Welles.The songs range from good to excellent as well. Written by Kenny Ascher and Paul Williams (who has a cameo as a piano player in Fozzie's introduction). My two favourites are 'Rainbow Connection' and 'Movin' Right Along'. Although Miss Piggy's 'Never Before, Never Again' should garner some laughs like it did to me.So, if you are a fan of The Muppets or perhaps if you have a child who does not know The Muppets this might be a perfect intro for them. I would suggest watching legends like Jim Henson and Frank Oz at work here. Followed by a number of sequels.
One of the best muppet movies. Funny and clever. Happy and cheerful with a great message.
A heartwarming movie, this tells the tory of how the Muppets are formed. After meeting an agent who shows him an ad, Kermit The Frog leaves the safety of his swamp to go seek fame in Hollywood. After meeting Fozzie Bear at the El Sleezo Café, and agreeing to team up to be an act, they meet many new friends on their trip, however, Doc Hopper, a greedy owner of a chain of restaurants specializing in French fried frog legs (and has the tendency to dress like Colonel Sanders, the mascot of KFC) wants to get the frog as the chain's new mascot after he sees his dancing.This is a good classic. The movie has a lot of good, heartfelt moments and even some neat cameos (one has Kermit and Fozzie meeting Big Bird). Also the movie has some clever fourth wall breaks, as the movie is actually within a movie, as the start has the muppets watching the first screening of the film. Also, it has some memorable songs, including The Rainbow Connection. This is a classic film I recommend.
It goes without saying but this movie's a classic. It shows how Kermit met his friends and how they got their show. The songs are memorable, the characters are enjoyable to watch and have great chemistry and the jokes are still funny to this day. The film opens with Kermit (Jim Henson) singing 'Rainbow Connection' at his swamp when a talent agent named Bernie (Dom DeLuise) appears and convinces him to go to Hollywood. While on his way he meets Doc Hopper (Charles Durning) and his gofer Max (Austin Pendleton) who want him to be the spokesperson for his Frog-legs restaurant. Unsurprisingly, Kermit refuses leading to Doc relentlessly pursuing throughout the rest of the movie.As his quest progresses Kermit meets Fozzie Bear (Frank Oz), a struggling comedian who wants to be big. After convincing him to come along they sing 'Movin' Right Along'. As their quest progresses they meet other characters such as Gonzo (Dave Goelz) and Miss Piggy (Frank Oz) who's smitten with him. The movie has a great sense of humor. I like how they break the fourth wall and even have other Henson creations make cameos such as Big Bird. I can't say enough about this movie other than it's great. It's funny, clever and has age well. I highly recommend you check it out.
Ingeniously using the tried and tested road movie format to tell the story of how Kermit the Frog and friends all met each other and broke show business, this utterly charming film proves to be a lot more than some goofy comedy as it addresses a surprisingly pertinent and substantial central theme about believing in yourself and the intrinsic struggle found in making one's dreams come true. Yeah, that's some pretty heady stuff for an alleged family film, but fortunately director James Frawley and writers Jack Burns and Jerry Juhl keep things bouncy and witty with a deliciously self-mocking sense of sly humor that pokes merry fun at the artificiality inherent in the whole enterprise.It also helps that the muppets are such colorful and likeable characters who somehow come across as instantly recognizable flesh'n'blood living beings. Moreover, this film further benefits from a wealth of cool cameos from such famous folks as Dom DeLuise, Bob Hope, Milton Berle, Orson Welles (perfectly cast as a movie mogul), James Coburn, Carol Kane, Madeline Kahn, Elliott Gould, Mel Brooks (hilarious as a crazy German scientist), Telly Savalas, and Edgar Bergen. Charles Durning contributes a nicely oily portrayal of ruthless frog legs merchant Doc Hopper while Austin Pendleton offers sound support as Hopper's meek assistant Max. Kudos are also in order for the terrific array of catchy songs by Paul Williams and Kenny Ascher, with the uplifting 'Rainbow Connection' rating as an all-time favorite. A sheer delight.
This movie is just such a classic! Even someone who has never been a big muppet fan can and will enjoy this very well made film. The voices of them and how they act are of course pretty much the exact same as always. I like how the film starts out. It begins with Kermit just resting on in his swamp while singing and playing his music. A supposed talent agent comes by in a paddle boat and points out Kermit's blatant musical talent and says he should travel to Hollywood and audition. Kermit likes the sound of that idea and leaves his swamp home behind for Hollywood. On the very first stop along the way, he comes across Fozzie the bear and makes quick friends with him at a restaurant that serves deep fried frog legs. There is a man who advertises them at the restaurant and he spots Kermit and wants to catch him. This man becomes our villain. Kermit and Fozzie continue their journey to Hollywood. Their car ride is accompanied by fun musical numbers to entertain along the way. Eventually we come into contact with more muppet characters and then they stop at a county fair where a county fair pageant is being held. Enter miss piggy. She comes onto the big screen and as you may guess, her and Kermit lock starry eyes with one another and that's all it takes to take her with them to Hollywood. The scenes with Kermit and Piggy are very well written and I loved seeing them on screen together. They have a date night at a hotel they stop at and as if the movie wasn't already good enough then we get a Steve Martin cameo as the obnoxious waiter serving them. Then eventually we wrap the movie up with a dual against the villain and seeing if all their Hollywood dreams come true. 9/10 for the muppet movie. And it's an awesome pick for family viewing!
The Muppet Movie (1979): Dir: James Frawley / Featuring: Charles Durning, Mel Brooks, Austin Pendleton, Scott Walker, Dom DeLuise: Imaginative family film about the magic of filmmaking and in particular the wonderment of the Muppets. Kermit the frog sits on a log playing his ukelele until Dom DeLuise rows by and offers him a copy of Variety, which has an ad for singing frogs. He decides to go to Hollywood to become a star and along the way he encounters fellow Muppet pals Fozzie Bear, the Great Gonzo, and Miss Piggy. Fine opening with detailed road movie plotting thanks to director James Frawley. Charles Durning plays the villain who wants Kermit as a trademark for French Fried Fog's Legs restaurants. Among his henchmen are Mel Brooks as a brilliant scientist who attempts to render Kermit a real frog through a machine but this will backfire. Others have rather standard roles. Austin Pendleton plays Durning's closest henchman who will have a change of heart. Scott Walker plays the nasty Snake Walker set to exterminate Kermit. Other celebrities appear briefly but memorably. It is a wonderful combination of movie stars interacting with these fictional creations and with great payoff. Imaginative family film that will appeal to children as well as adults. It succeeds in the wondrous magic of Muppet creator Jim Henson and the world he creates. Score: 9 / 10
Replacing moose and squirrel as the top non-human super couple of television, Kermit the Frog and Miss Piggy moved onto the movies in the late 1970's and never looked back. Miss Piggy, already a T.V. diva, even went as far as to protest on the Oscars as to why she was not nominated to which host Johnny Carson told her the only Oscar she was worthy of was Oscar Mayer. Kermit, of course, was much more humble, and coming from the swamp as opposed to a luxurious sty, that makes perfect sense to me. In fact, if it wasn't for Dom De Luise paddling through that swamp on a boat and finding Kermit strumming a banjo singing 'The Rainbow Connection', he might still be there today! It is De Luise's suggestion that he get himself to Hollywood and present himself as their newest romantic star. After all, the last time frogs made an impression in Hollywood was those nasty ones who along with some snakes and other swamp creatures invaded Ray Milland's plantation in the horror epic 'Frogs'. The musical adventure follows Kermit's journey, his romance with beauty contestant winner Miss Piggy, and most nefariously, Charles Durning's desire to use Kermit for commercials for his chain of frog's legs restaurants which of course makes Kermit hopping mad. All of the muppet regulars join Kermit and Piggy for their journey to Hollywood and dreams of movie stardom. Even Big Bird makes an appearance, turning down Kermit's offer to join them, trying to find his way to public television rather than that dangerous world known as Hollywood.There's a dozen cameos by various celebrities of the era (and a few of the past) including Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy as judges in Miss Piggy's beauty contest, Bob Hope who makes jokes while selling Kermit ice cream, Richard Pryor as a sarcastic balloon salesman, Milton Berle as a shyster car salesman, Steve Martin as a sarcastic waiter who almost spoils Miss Piggy and Kermit's date, Cloris Leachman as an officious movie studio secretary (sneezing as she is surrounded by the furry creatures invading her office), and finally, Orson Welles as a very imperious seeming movie mogul who hides a huge heart of gold underneath his enormous girth.'The Rainbow Connection', Kermit's theme song here, has almost surpassed 'It's not easy being green' as his theme song. After many years of making the rounds on every variety show and of course 'Sessame Street', the muppets moved onto a very popular syndicated show which lead to their transition into the movies. This was one of the biggest hits of the 1979 summer season and has stood the test of time, even if some of the cameos by the various older stars may not ring any bells of familiarity with today's younger audiences. As for the other songs in the film, they are vibrant and peppy, if shortened for the movie with lyric changes that were heard on the original soundtrack album. Miss Piggy really hams it up with her big solo, 'Never Before, Never Again', but even that is really worth a Golden Apple. Seldom after has Hollywood given us entertainment that continues to appeal to practically everybody to this day.
I love the Muppets and I know this film is a precious childhood memory for many, but to me they didn't stand the transition from the small screen all that well. The Muppet Movie lacks the special combination of subtlety and insane mayhem of the TV show, the combination that made it perfectly enjoyable on totally different levels for both children and adults - the film is directed much more clearly at children, if somewhat older ones than the Sesame Street audience. The attempt to create a coherent narrative makes the whole thing feel way too tame while not creating a very interesting story. Having said all that, The Muppet Movie does have some very funny moments, superb musical segments, and a wonderful collection of guest star cameos - some Muppet Show veterans, some a complete surprise. For all that, for some beautiful landscape shots, and for one more chance to meet all those wonderful characters, it's still a minor classic worth rewatching.
The songs were very nice especially Rainbow Connection, and it's very nice to see Kermit dance with Fozzie very funny and cute and the jokes were way to hilarious.
This movie is incredibly fun and exciting. This teaches never to give up and the qualities of a good actor is making people happy! Definitely see this!
Kermit: 'How did you know where to find us?'
Dr. Teeth: 'Simple we read the script...'Now that is funny! You can picture MC Escher's own hand drawing his own hand.It is a movie for adults & kids and for those adults who are kids at heart still.The genius of The Muppet Show was professional actors playing straight man to puppets. And it worked. But many of the actors honed their craft in vaudeville--on the vaudeville stage. Which is, of course, what Kermit is running; he is running a vaudeville stage complete with comic (Fozzie Bear), real life talent (actual performers who actually wanted to be there), and various absurdist dramas (Pigs In Space, Dr Bob, Muppet Labs). And there is the natural question of how this variety of people came together. (Think 'Bridge of San Luis Rey' by Thornton Wilder.) And what you have is a picaresque story (Road Movie for the low brow) to match 'Don Quixote' or 'Joseph Andrews' by Fielding, complete with conflict and challenge and triumph over said conflict and challenge. And it should come as no surprise to anyone, that the film works.
He's been known for many things related to television. He made the word 'Muppet' a common term. He created Sesame Street, a children's show everyone has enjoyed for all ages. Most importantly though, he reinvigorated an industry that was seen as old fashioned and viewed as almost laughable. Ventriloquism and puppetry seem like a trivial way of entertainment, but before special effects and CGI were a thing, it has long been a means for that reason. Just because it's old doesn't mean it no longer has value nor contributed to the evolution of the industry it's related to. Rightfully so, with the success of The Muppet Show, Jim Henson took the next step in his film career by making a movie about them. What results is a strong first entry in Henson's theatrical movies.The story although not credited at all to Henson, is an allegory to Henson being able to make his Muppet movie. Even with the success of The Muppet Show, Henson had trouble finding someone to support his first theatrical film. Kermit the frog (Jim Henson) is enjoying his life in the swamp when he's visited by a Hollywood agent telling him he could be a star. Feeling he could make an impact, Kermit sets out on the road and meets all his other friends people come to love and know so well. In a sense, it's an origin story. The script was written by Jerry Juhl and Jack Burns, both who had worked on The Muppet Show as well. Directing the feature was James Frawley who had more experience heading TV shows like The Monkees and Magnum, P.I.For those who enjoy the Muppets, the film gives the viewer a good idea as to how Kermit hit it big with Hollywood and was able to gather his group of diverse and colorful friends. Characters like Fozzie Bear, Miss Piggy, Gonzo, Rowlf, Dr. Teeth, Animal, Scooter, Beaker, Bunsen and more get their introductions one way or another. The script also loves to break the fourth wall with the audience, letting them know the Muppets know it's a movie. The puppeteers and voice actors all do a great job making these characters feel like they are their own individual. Not to mention as expected, the movie also contains several cameos from big name actors at the time like Charles Durning, Austin Pendleton, Edgar Bergen, Mel Brooks, James Coburn, Dom DeLuise, Bob Hope, Carol Kane, Richard Pryor, Orson Welles and Caroll Spinney playing who else but Big Bird.Perhaps the only thing that suffers in the movie is pacing. It's not a bad thing, but it's most likely the weakest link in the production. At times, audiences may feel the story is kind of taking a wacky detour. This comes down to the incidents Kermit and his friends get involved with, some of which don't make a lot of sense. Perhaps that was a part of the comedy? It's a bit hard to tell, but that doesn't mean the movie isn't funny. There are plenty of moments where the characters get involved in over the top antics. The effects used in this movie are also commendable. There are a number of illusions used in the movie that are mind blowing for the time that show a puppet can fully exist on screen without being attached to a puppeteer. It's very creative.These camera tricks were caught by Albert Einstein lookalike cinematographer Isidore Mankofsky. From what is shown, Mankofsky filmed several nice countryside backdrops along with varying streets of California. Lastly, the music composed by Kenny Ascher and Paul Williams is notably an important piece. Having worked very famously on the second A Star is Born (1976) remake, it's no shocker they created memorable music here too. Songs like the 'Rainbow Connection', 'Movin' Right Along', and 'I'm Going to Go Back There Someday' are all songs that bring out the proper emotions for the scene. Making it all the more enjoyable are the small snippets of score that they composed throughout the film. Thankfully the album exists and has been reissued. Definitely something worth adding to a collection.Pacing is probably the only thing that falters from time to time. That should not be too bad though because the acting, guest appearances, story, songs and cinematography all make this an enjoyable family picture.
It could be because I watched this movie all the time as a kid and know it by heart, but I love The Muppet Movie. As a kid, I laughed at the silly jokes and I still chuckle at the meta references and running gags as an adult. This movie is full of heart and humor and it still holds up all these decades later-even if my kids don't recognize any of the cameos by famous comedians of the time.
Jim Henson's wonderful muppet characters have delighted audiences for decades, in movies, tv shows, theme parks, and even social media. But if we're to go back to the oldest theatrically released adventure with Kermit and the gang, then look no further than the highly beloved Muppet Movie from 1979. Released during the original run of the adored Muppet Show, the movie was a critical darling and a commercial hit, and afterwards multiple movies would continue even past Jim Henson's passing. But now that the movie is over 40 years old, let us see how well it has aged with time.Told as an origin story of the Muppets, the film centers on Kermit the Frog embarking on a cross-country trip to Hollywood to make millions of people happy. Along the way, he encounters other Muppets with the same ambition of finding success in show business. As the film is structured like an origin story, it gives a lot of fun context in terms of what characters like Fozzie Bear, Ms. Piggy, Gonzo and more were doing before the legendary muppet gang even formed. Despite sharing similar goals to Kermit, each member stands out from their own distinctive personalities and quirks, making this character driven narrative all the more entertaining. Not only that, but thanks to the Muppets' trademark surreal and meta humor, the film allows its fourth wall breaks and film cliche jabs to work within the story rather than detracting from it. And even at the film's silliest, the more emotional moments still feel genuine when it comes to Kermit's pursuit of Hollywood or even the subplot of evil restaurateur Doc Hopper desperately seeking Kermit as a frog legs spokesperson. Isn't it great when humor and pathos blend well with each other?But then you have the musical numbers courtesy of Paul Williams and Kenny Ascher. When it comes to the songs that spring up the momentum in Kermit and the gang's journey across America, some notable standouts include Movin' Right Along that are complete with insight humor on the broaden U.S. and Can You Picture That? which can delight any optimist to believe in doing anything that's possible. Of course, there is also room saved for when characters let their inner desires speak for themselves, such as Never Before, Never Again, I Hope That Somethin' Better Comes Along and Gonzo's monologue I'm Going to Go Back There Someday. The more monotone songs allow for a smooth contrast between the film's upbeat tone. Finally, we have the Oscar nominated classic, Rainbow Connection, which not only encapsulates Kermit's dream of making people happy, but also the entire purpose of the Muppets in general. If we all want to find the connection to success and dreams coming true, all it takes is a little hope and effort from our own pursuits, just like the genius that was Jim Henson.In addition to the fun plot and lovable characters, the filmmaking itself is fantastic from a technical standpoint. Given that this was the first time the Muppets were to be filmed outside of a studio location, the amount of tricks and props the crew had to do for the entire gang was downright revolutionary. In terms of just having the first muppet bodies with legs, the tricks ranged from barely noticeable wires and cranes, to blue screen compositing to even well coordinated props for the muppeteers to interact in (the opening swamp sequence took five days to film keep in mind). And yet even with all these tricks, they're so seamless that even the biggest film snobs would barely notice them. It's amazing just how much Jim Henson's company was willing to advance the art of muppetry and effects work both then and now, especially at a time before digital craftsmanship was even possible. And what's even funnier is that those accomplishments are exactly what the rainbow connection stands for: creating magic with love and dedication. Is it any wonder the movie is seen as a technical achievement?So in conclusion, not only is The Muppet Movie a delightful thrill ride from start to finish with its impressive craft and charming characters, but it just might be the best feature film with the muppet gang. While many more Muppet movies would be made afterwards, some good and some bad, and many with better craftsmanship and filmmaking, none will come close to this phenomenal gem. I can't quite explain it, but perhaps the rainbow connection was at its strongest in this film's sincerity and strong love of the beloved muppet gang. So whether you've seen this movie or not, follow your own path on that same rainbow.
I somehow contrive to never see this film until very recently when I am well into my 30's. Some aspects of the film is dated quite badly-I didn't recognize all of the cameos-with the screwball comedy-like around Miss Piggy being the thing that stood out to me the most. Nonetheless, much of the film is timeless and effortlessly magical. The technical wizardry of the puppeteering really holds up and there are a few gags that I no idea how they were done.The film has a such a cheerful carefree attitude. It is at its best when it is self-deprecating or being shamelessly sentimental. The opening solo by Kermit is what the Muppets are all about.
They really don't make them like this anymore. The amount of talent envolved here is incredible. It is packed with great humour, wonderful songs and a genuine warmth of humanity that is more than just pure nostalgia. Highly recommended for children and adults of all ages and a benchmark of family entertainment.
How amazing that THE MUPPET MOVIE is so grounded in the 1970s yet also so timeless in its appeal. The film is essentially a late entry into the '1970s road movie' tradition, with a cast of eccentric dreamers and misfits traveling across America and getting into strange escapades along the way, and the majority of its celebrity cameos will fly over anyone who isn't a film buff these days, and yet it remains an accessible movie, dated in only the most superficial ways.There have been other memorable Muppet movies, but the first is still the best and most heartfelt in my opinion. Kermit and co.'s quest can be seen as an allegory for Jim Henson's own creative journey up until that point, with Doc Hopper representing the temptation to sell out. In spite of the many puns and wacky sight gags, there is a melancholy, deadly serious thread throughout the story that any person chasing a dream can relate to: the fear that you aren't good enough, the fear that you'll never get to where you want to be in life. The moment where Kermit frets in the desert, wondering if it was even worth it to leave his boring but comfortable life back in the swamp, hits closer to home for adults than it does for kids, I imagine.I do think something was lost when Jim Henson died. The Muppets have only been sporadically successful since and their newer output often seems to struggle to keep up with the latest in memes and fads, operating on the complete opposite wavelength of Henson's original and humane worldview. But we'll always have the Muppets as they were back in the 1970s and 1980s with these wonderful movies and in that lovely category, THE MUPPET MOVIE still remains among Henson's highest achievements as a storyteller.
This film will touch the heart of anyone with a shred of fondness left for their childhood. Jim Henson creates a whimsical adventure in a world of whimsy and far-fetched fateful happenings. Kermit and Fonzie Bear journey across the country towards Hollywood and their imagined stardom, picking up the iconic cast along the way. With the company of Miss Piggie, Gonzo, and Rowlf, the troop fight evil froggy-fast-food businessman, Doc Hopper, who wants to make Kermit the spokesperson for the consumption of his species. The splendid contrast of the characters and their tomfoolery is a spot of light in today's troubled times. The pragmatic presence of Kermit gives the viewer a sense of reassurance that at least one member of the cast is using some logic. Director James Frawley had to work very precisely to make the combination of puppets and reality seem cohesive. It was a great burden to direct, given the complexity of the situation and the physical requirements of the rigging needed to pull off such a large puppet operation. As such, it is an impressive feat from an engineering, writing, directing, and entertaining perspective. The movie is great for all ages, as it is simple enough that a child can grasp the events, but still full of details that a more attuned viewer can pick up on.
This is my comfort movie and at a time like this we could as use a little bit of comfort. From the iconic opening which sees Kermit playing The Rainbow Connection right trough to the final moments this is an optimistic, hilarious warm hug of a movie. The soundtrack is among the best movie soundtracks of all time, the gags hold up perfectly and the message about relying on your friends when you need them and moving towards a shared goal is timeless.
What's not to love about this classic? 'The Rainbow Connection' is as fresh today as the day it was written and forever associated with Jim Henson as the voice of Kermit the Frog, who is on a trek across America with his new friends seeking success in Hollywood-but a frog legs merchant is after Kermit! Fir more great family viewing try: 'The Great Muppet Caper' (1981) and 'The Muppets Take Manhattan' (1984). ---from Musicas on the Silver Screen, American Library Association, 2013
Jim Henson's work has aged beautifully. I loved seeing the shenanigans unfold on the screen and how everyone met each other. Never forgetting that rainbow connection.
Full of charisma and heart and joy. Perfect movie for the family, it's on Disney Plus and I'm glad I got to see this. Growing up I would watch the TV show and I never cared for the films but decided to give them a go and I like this one a lot, I'll be reviewing all the muppets movies, all that are on Disney plus of course. The music is magical and the main song is so heart warming and plays into the story perfectly. This in a way shows the origins of the muppets and it's quite a ride going. What I find amazing is how they manage to make puppets act without making face expressions. They're puppets, they have the same exact face the entire movie, but the movie really knows how to kick you in the guts regardless. Other films fail at this nowadays. Films like the lion king that try so hard to up the ante of the original instead of making it compelling enough to watch as a film. This movie didn't feel like it was trying to be better than the TV show or force anything down our throats, it tries to actually do something in depth and I think in many ways it benefits ALOT from that and I'd argue it lives up just as good as the tv show. Great movie and is a classic and set the stage for the many sequels to come.
I grew up on Jim Henson's creations so I am definitely biased. I have a deep affinity for The Muppets, Sesame Street, and even The Muppet Babies (a cartoon that came out in the 80's).Was this movie a great creation? No, but I liked it. It had the Muppets first and foremost, and it had a lot of great cameos as well.
I'd never seen any of the Muppet television shows or movies growing up as a kid, but I was raised on The Muppet Christmas Carol. After watching and loving 2011's The Muppets, I thought it would be fun to rent their first flick from 1979. It was fun!After Dom DeLuise overhears Kermit the Frog singing, he suggests he head on over to Hollywood for fame and fortune, since he's so talented. Kermit takes a road trip and along the way meets up with a ton of colorful characters, as well as other Muppets, whom he becomes friends with. How great is that? You get to see how Kermit became friends with Fozzie Bear, Gonzo, Animal, and the others, and how he first romanced Miss Piggy!With dozens of cameos, like Steve Martin as an inexplicably rude waiter, Bob Hope as an ice cream scooper, Milton Berle as a used car salesman, Richard Pryor as a balloon salesman, Orson Welles as a Hollywood producer, and Charles Durning, Scott Walker, and Austin Pendleton as the bad guys, you'll be constantly entertained. You'll also see Carol Kane, Cloris Leachman, Mel Brooks, Madeleine Kahn, James Coburn, Elliott Gould, Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy, Telly Savalas, and Albert Finney. Paul Williams's songs are really cute, including the birth of 'The Rainbow Connection.' Watching Kermit the Frog strum his guitar in his little boat will instantly put you at peace. There are silly little jokes that you'll laugh at despite your attempts not to, and if you really love it, you can check out the sequels made throughout the decades.
Is there another film property (or ANY media property) that nails the balance between sincerity and cynicism so adeptly? This first Muppet film perfectly sets the tone for all the Muppet movies to come; it's silly, meta, full of cameos, irreverently meta, and as heartfelt as the love between pigs and frogs...and like the best spoofs, it doesn't sacrifice cinematic skill and care for humor.
I was seven years old when this film first came out and it's still as charming today as then, but I can now appreciate it on a much more adult level. The film is a road picture, telling the story of how the muppets first met after Kermit leaves his swamp to go to Hollywood on the advice of Hollywood agent Dom Deluise (the first of many cameo appearances that included Edgar Bergen, Milton Berle, Mel Brooks, James Coburn, Elliott Gould, Bob Hope, Madleine Kahn, Carol Kane, Cloris Leachman, Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Telly Savalas, Orson Welles). Charles Durning plays Doc Hopper and Austin Pendelton plays his wacky assistant are the villains of the piece, who are trying to coerce Kermit to star in commercials for Hopper's French Fried Frog Legs fast food resturant chain. There's also a cameo by Paul Williams, who wrote the songs for the film, including the classic song The Rainbow Connection, but that's not to discount some equally good songs such as Movin' Right Along or Finale: The Magic Store at the end of the film. Then there is the hilariously syrupy Never Before, Never Again sung by Miss Piggy when she first lays eyes on Kermit and imagine a series of Harlequin Romance scenarios of her and Kermit. The film really does hold up as quite funny and what surprised me most was how sarcastic Kermit the Frog was at times. I think my favorite Kermit sarcastic moment was after the Electric Mayhem paint Kermit and Fozzie's Studebaker:Dr. Teeth: Doc Hopper will never recognize you now.
Fozzie: I don't know how to thank you guys.
Kermit: I don't know *why* to thank you guys.And I think that is why 'The Muppet Movie' and the muppets in general have endured. They are fun for kids and also funny for adults. On a related note, if you're a muppet fan, you should do yourself a favor and watch the Jason Segel & Nicholas Stoller 2011 film 'The Muppets,' which perfectly captured this same charm of being enjoyable for both kids and adults, which is something most of the sequels lost and instead played more to the kids.
One of the best films showcasing the incredible talents of Henson and his co-conspirators!
Jim Hensons' beloved characters received their first feature film vehicle with this delightful family film, which celebrates its 40th anniversary this year. It illustrates the journey of Kermit the Frog: discovered in a Georgia swamp by a Hollywood talent agent (Dom DeLuise), the amphibian is entranced by the idea of making millions of people happy with his singing and dancing. So he sets off for La La Land, acquiring numerous travelling companions along the way - starting with 'comedian' Fozzie the Bear. He also acquires a nemesis - Doc Hopper (Charles Durning), the owner-operator of a string of frog legs restaurants who wants Kermit to be his spokesman.I know that some fans argue that the procession of celebrity cameos really isn't necessary - sometimes these people get very little to do, and just serve as a distraction. That said, Steve Martin (as a surly waiter) and Milton Berle (as a used car salesman) are very funny, and Orson Welles is well cast as a movie studio mogul. Your littlest kids will love the cameo by a certain other popular family entertainment character.Overall, the film proves hard to resist. The script is by Jerry Juhl and Jack Burns, and it's enjoyable; there's a reasonable amount of good one-liners as well as visual gags. Like other Muppet movies, there are some nice moments of fourth-wall breaking. It has the appeal of a good road movie, and adheres to the tradition that it's the journey that provides the most impact, and not the destination. Not all of the Paul Williams (who also has a cameo) and Kenny Ascher songs are created equal, as some of them are kind of forgettable. But I challenge the viewer to walk away unaffected by 'The Rainbow Connection', the first number in the film.The Muppets themselves, of course, are wonderful. Some of this viewers' personal favourites are Animal, Rowlf, Statler and Waldorf (hilarious as always), Dr. Bunsen Honeydew & Beaker, Dr. Teeth, and Floyd. I just wish that my # 1 favourite, The Swedish Chef, could have had more to do. Durning is a perfectly odious villain, and the great character actor Austin Pendleton is likeable as his nebbishy assistant.The bottom line is that if you love these characters, you should quite enjoy the film. It does leave one with a smile, as the Muppets get to 'stay in character' and keep entertaining you through the end credits.Some trivia for you: Tim Burton is uncredited as a Muppet performer, and the director is James Frawley, son of William Frawley of 'I Love Lucy' fame!Nine out of 10.
The Muppet Movie is a perfect storm. It's not only great for young viewers but adults, like me, can enjoy just as much as any child. It's a great experience overall that will keep you smiling, laughing, and maybe even make you shed a tear or two.
The Muppets have always had more edge then their Sesame Street counterparts, and I think that's one reason why they are so endearing and beloved. It's biggest asset is how funny it is. At its core though, this film is a musical. I'm not kidding when I say that 'Rainbow Connection' and 'Movin' Right Along' are two of the best songs in film history. The rest of the soundtrack is also classic.
It wouldn't be a Muppet production without some celebrity cameos and this movie had those and then some. Some include Richard Pryor, Madeline Khan, Don DeLuise, Steve Martin and Even freaking Orson Wells!!! Of course the real stars are the puppets and puppeteers. Jim Henson, Frank Oz and the rest of the gang never get the credit that they deserve. They not only created some of pop culture's most enduring and popular characters but also made their personalities so life like and real. Like any great ventriloquists, you forget that the puppets are made of felt and see them as living beings.
If you love the muppets, watch this film. If you've never heard of them, watch this film. It's a real joy to watch. If you love good comedy, good music, good characters and great movies, then watch this film.
If I were to say that I remember seeing this in the cinema when it was first released that probably gives away how hold I actually am, or at least gives you a bit of a range. The thing is though that as kids we loved the Muppets, so when they got their own movie it was a no brainer that we kids would end up going to see it. Fortunately for me, on the fourtieth anniversary, one of the best cinemas in Melbourne decided to put it on again, which meant that I had a chance to relive a childhood experience, as well as watching a whole younger generation appreciate it as well.The movie is basically the story of how the muppets came together to become who they happen to be, and to be honest with you, if it was any other type of film it would be rubbish, and completely lame. Except it isn't because it is the Muppets, and one by one we meet up with the regular cast that would appear on the weekly show, which included having Stalter and Waldolf appear at the studio gates clearly stating that the only reason they are there are as hecklers. Actually, watching them carry on in some of the Youtube videos is classic as well.Yeah, in a way this is a gorgeous movie that makes absolutely no sense whatsoever, but it isn't supposed to. We start off with Kermit in a swamp in Florida (I assume) playing a banjo, and then a talent scout happens to be in the area and points out that Hollywood is looking for some amphibian actors. What a talent scout is doing in the middle of a swamp is beyond me, though I suspect he could actually be fishing.So, Kermit, who at first just enjoys being in the swamp, decides to go on an adventure, and one by one he meets up with the various muppets, including Fozzy, Dr Teeth and his band, and of course Miss Piggy (which when they arrive at a carnival and there is a beauty contest, you pretty much known straight away who is going to win). In fact, there were also some characters, such as Ralph the Dog, that I didn't remember until seeing the film.Oh, and like the television show, we also have a parade of special guest stars as well, though considering how old the film actually is, many of these appearances are pretty dated, such as Tally Sevalas and Steve Martin. Still, this was a lovely film, and very enjoyable, even if only to bring back one's childhood.
This is a fun movie. Let me start out with that. The Muppets have fun jokes,
 (EG, 'I like this movie so far!'
 'But it hasn't started yet!'
 'That's what I like about it!')
and I also like the cameos.
Steve Martin as a rude waiter.
Richard Pryor as a balloon man. (I will let you ponder that sentence.)
Cloris Leachman as a secretary. 
And other cast mates including:Bob Hope, Carol Kane, Orson Welles,Telly Savalas(Pilate in The Greatest Story Ever Told), and much, much more!
I am giving it an 8 because the last half hour drags for me. It takes that long for The Muppets that long to get into Hollywood!
Other than that, this is still a fun movie and worth seeing!
The Muppet Movie is an all time classic for the whole family. There are great jokes and the story will keep everyone entertained. All your favorite muppet characters are in this. It would be nice to see some of them more (like Beaker and the Professor who I love!) but there's only so much time obviously. It's a great film with amazing puppetry even still for today. Recommended highly if you haven't seen it.
The Muppet Movie (1979) was a very innovative film for its time. The life-like portrayal of puppets interacting with humans was a very fun and entertaining dynamic. The story is about Kermit, voiced by Jim Henson' traveling from the swamp to Hollywood in pursuit of fame, fortune and the ability to make the world a happier place. Through his travels he meets what would become his family.James Frawley is a very versatile director who has a heavy focus in television, but I think his work on The Muppet Movie is some of his best. The deliberate camera angles to accentuate the puppets as real people rather than dolls enhanced the story. The audio in this film was spot on as it needed to be due to the limited facial expressions of the puppets. There were no major hiccups that detracted from the story and the self-perceived over acting from that puppets were a welcomed necessity.I enjoyed this film as a child and caught myself singing along to every song upon my review as an adult. This movie has an incredible amount of enjoyable slap stick comedy and the cameos from the likes of famous comedians like Richard Prior, Bob Hope, Steve Martin and Charles McCarthy pushed the film over the top. The music helped push every scene right along helping to exclude any stagnant scenes. Overall, I loved this film as a child and I love it even more as an adult.
Starts off cheerily enough with the two best songs of this Muppet musical, 'The Rainbow Connection' and 'Movin' Right Along'. After these two catchy numbers the first big screen outing for the Muppets kind of loses its way, despite some bright comedy.All the favourites are here, including Kermie, Miss Piggy, Fozzie, Gonzo and the gang. Even with the entire crew along, the film struggles to stay afloat for its hour and a half plus running time. Features an amazing gathering of guest stars, including Dom DeLuise, James Coburn, Richard Pryor, Madeline Kahn, Steve Martin, Mel Brooks, Elliot Gould, Bob Hope, Carol Kane, Telly Savalas, Orson Welles and Big Bird! Co-stars Charles Durning and Austin Pendleton.PS Didn't James Frawley go on to direct 'Fraternity Vacation'? Go figure!Thursday, December 30, 1999 - Video
I enjoyed THE MUPPET MOVIE very much. It was the first of the Muppet movies and is by far the best because it's so creative and fresh. With later films, the ideas just didn't seem quite so original. But here, we get to see Kermit and Miss Piggy riding bikes (an incredibly difficult scene), an excellent ensemble cast and just a lot of fun. I loved every minute the Muppets were performing and I would have rated the film a lot higher except for one serious problem. In this and most subsequent Muppet films, some powers that be felt there was a need to include lots of non-Muppets--in particular, many, many cameos by stars. Some worked fine (such as Charles Durning's) but many just seemed irrelevant and slowed the picture to a grinding halt. Probably the worst of them was with Edgar Bergan. Yes, he was an amazing man who inspired Jim Henson and the rest of his crew, but the tiny scene he's in just wasn't needed nor were most of the cameos. Still, despite this big complaint, it's a great film for the entire family--from the kids to even the most demanding adults.
This was basically a film telling the story of how all the Muppets met and went to Hollywood for fame and fortune. It starts with Kermit the Frog (Jim Henson) in the swamp being told by a lost boat guy he has talent with singing and jokes. So Kermit decides to head for Hollywood. Along the way he meets many new friends including Fozzie Bear (Frank Oz), The Electric Mayhem: Dr. Teeth (Henson), Floyd (Jerry Nelson), Zoot (Dave Goelz), Janice (Richard Hunt), Animal (Oz) and Scooter (Richard Hunt); The Great Gonzo (Goelz), Rowlf (Henson), and of course Miss Piggy (Oz). With cameos by Edgar Bergen and his puppet Charlie MacArthy, Mel Brooks, James Coburn, Dom DeLuise, Elliot Gould, Bob Hope, Steve Martin, Richard Pryor, Telly Savalas, Orson Welles and Paul Williams. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for Paul Williams and Kenny Ascher. The Oscar and Golden Globe nominated 'Rainbow Connection' was number 74 on 100 Years, 100 Songs, it was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Family Films, and The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Very good!
The first feature-length adventure of Jim Henson's beloved muppet characters is a very competent musical comedy vehicle as Kermit The Frog leaves his carefree, swampy surroundings for the bright lights (egged on by stranded Hollywood agent Dom DeLuise who overheard him singing); on the way, he meets Fozzie Bear (a pitiful stand-up comedian at James Coburn's El Sleazo Café who has Telly Savalas for a bouncer and Madeline Kahn a patron!), the piano-playing dog Rowlf, bestial drummer Animal and his laid-back, funky band, egomaniacal beauty queen Miss Piggy (in a ceremony presided over by Elliott Gould and Edgar Bergen), etc. All the while, Kermit et al are pursued by frogleg burger magnate Charles Durning and reluctant acolyte Austin Pendleton, sold cars, ice cream and balloons to by, respectively, Milton Berle, Bob Hope and Richard Pryor, served food by insolent waiter Steve Martin, nearly brainwashed by mad German scientist Mel Brooks and, finally, land an audition in the offices of movie mogul Orson Welles (who has Cloris Leachman for a secretary)! The pleasant song score comes courtesy of Paul Williams who also makes an appearance as the resident pianist at El Sleazo's. For the record, I have recently acquired four of the subsequent Muppet movies and should be watching them in the weeks to come when their turn falls due.
First and foremost... this is NOT a children's movie.  True, children can enjoy it and will laugh but, as with the Muppet Show, Rocky & Bullwinkle, the great old Warner Bros. cartoons and even the Animaniacs, kids don't really get the jokes... they are written for the adults.  For example, how many kids know that a bear was the emblem of Studebaker? Or recognize Dr. John as Dr. Teeth?  I have also been told that this movie is actually Jim Henson's autobiography... he, of course, being Kermit (BTW, when we lost Jim so tragically, they should have let Kermit go to... he just isn't the same without Jim) and his group builds as he pulls new friends into his magical gravity pool (Frank Oz, especially).  The other great thing about MM is Paul William's soundtrack.  Unfortunately, it is not available on CD and, since I don't own a turntable anymore, can't listen to the record but it is one of William's three masterpiece soundtracks from the 1970s (the others being Phantom of the Paradise and Bugsy Malone), but in college (yes, college) in 1980, I used to drive my roommate nuts because every morning as I would get ready to leave, I would listen to the record.  None of the other Muppet Movies has ever managed to capture the charm or the magic of the original. They have had their moments but they are truly kids films, but at least we grown-ups have the Muppet Movie for ourselves... and a thing... whatever Gonzo is.
In case you don't already know, the plot of this film is the singing talent that is Kermit treks to Hollywood as a merchant wants Kermit to be a spokesman.  From that basic 'plot', not much happens.  There are a few laughs along the way, but not enough to sustain the film.  In fact, it gets downright boring in the final third and after the Muppets get to Hollywood, it seems that the film will never end.  The film also contains a couple scenes that may disturb children.For genuinely funny Muppet movies, I'd recommend 'The Great Muppet Caper' and 'Muppets From Space'.
It's about one dream that got fulfilled. Kermit the Frog / Jim Henson tells us cinematically how he reached finally to make his own movie / this movie! It's about hunting the chance to succeed. And because its own genuine truthfulness, it succeeds for me.Once, in some magazine, I found this movie in a list for the most underrated movies ever. It is indeed. Yes, it doesn't have the excellent hilarity of the original TV show (1976 - 1981), or the fancy Hollywood adventure as their next movies; for instance, The Great Muppet Caper (1981). It got one man's dream, insistence and innocence. That's enough for me. And perhaps for that list's editors.Actually you'd never find this sense of vagabondage, self-suffering, dream's sheer value, or the collective desire to be, in a Muppet movie again. It is their only road movie yet, with all the uniqueness of the case. And, in the same time, it's one of the happiest biography-movies ever; look at the cameo of Henson's other famous character Big Bird, who at one moment tells Kermit that he's going to New York to break into public television, which already happened through Henson's landmark TV show Sesame Street (1969)! It's like Henson says: 'I Did It'. This feel of pride touches you however in a lovely humble way, as someone chronicles his achievements while making another new one.I loved exceptionally the movie-in-the-movie matter; Henson doesn't get board out of assuring that he and the rest of his creative buddies are basically viewers, simple viewers just like you. So the viewer also can make their own movie / their dream. This meaning hasn't been ever clearer before.There is a delightful magic all over it. You feel all the time a romantic sensibility, with a taste of latent dolefulness too. Look at the intro of Kermit. From choosing the arborous location, to the tender camera's motion and the so smooth editing; aside from being a glorious cinematic moment, it personified coming back to nature, the beauty of the innate talent, and the loneliness of Kermit and his dream as well.And the songs.. Ohh!, I've never been fascinated with a musical like this unless very few. 'Never Before' is a complete classic. I'm astonished how big performers such as Sinatra or else didn't cover it?! 'Moving Right Along' is the Muppets' own optimism's anthem. Or 'Find Your Rainbow Connection' where the lyrics, the melody, and the singing deliver the meaning smartly and enjoyably. I consider this, as a whole, one perfect soundtrack for a dream's journey.It reminds me with many old musicals that center on a band that had to assemble, and a show that wants a breakthrough. For me, it looks so much like The Band Wagon (1953); whereas both of them are musical comedies, based originally on one lonely artist who wants to be, and center around making a musical; it's the way some movie makers see their dream, and then recreate it in a movie, yet as beautiful as a dream.I didn't like some points like Mel Brooks cameo, which was slightly obscene, and the shocking matter of turning the old church into a casino! The ending was the plot's weakest part. How the Hollywood producer just convinced this easily?? The movie was sluggish there. Or maybe, just maybe, this is the movie's own definition for what a stroke of luck is! As you see, this script teaches us, the hopeful dreamers, that it needs a lot: talent, faith, togetherness, solidarity, patience, a bit of failure.. depression.. being lonely, prosperity granted by fate, or in this movie's definition: luck, with - in this movie's conscience - a portion of hypocrisy as well; see how Kermit commends Miss Piggy at the final number, then apologizes to us, clarifying how forced he is: 'Hollywood Talk!'.It's a musical comedy about making a musical comedy, or the musical comedy for this group of unknown yet talented misfits. A lot of stars got to support it, but the real star of it was the pure essence or the extract of Henson's dream / life / movie: 'Life is a movie, write your own ending'. WAW! So you can be the hero of your life?! Make your dream come true?! Great men did it. Jim Henson is one. And he's the one who told you that it isn't impossible, you can do it too, in a form of a movie.
Walt Disney, Jim Henson, and George Lucas.  Under normal circumstances, the public accepts their work without thinking.  It's thanks to 'Howard the Duck' that Lucas received his pitfall, Henson had 'Labyrinth', and Disney destroyed our collective imaginations and our perception of history with 'Davy Crockett', '20,000 Leagues Under the Sea', and 'Johnny Tremain'.  Only 'Bambi' is his redeeming grace.  In reality, their work is too simple to be taken seriously and only due to other people's actions, namely Steve Jobs and Irvin Kerschner, that we remember their names better.  Magicians need more than charm to become true wizards.My favorite comic strip for the last 18 years has been 'Calvin & Hobbes' because of Calvin's integrated reality.  There is the 'real world' where Calvin exists, then there is the 'hallucinatory' world where Hobbes exists with Calvin, and finally there is Calvin's imagination where he envisions himself on occasion.That is the most detail I've ever seen in an everyday comic strip.  This movie is almost on the same level.  Here is the grand exception.Like many kid films in the genre, the people (adults in particular) are cruel and cynical to better contrast the humanity and niceness of the Muppets.  So this film relies on a non-human tradition similar to Lynch's 'Elephant Man'.Who'd have thought a kids movie from the 70s would have this much retaining power?Final Analysis = = Learn from this...
The movie debut of The Muppets has Kermit and company heading west seeking Hollywood stardom. While it's fun spotting stars in cameo roles, they are given little to do. The script is quite lame, with only a few chuckles here and there. The film is aimed primarily at kids and they will enjoy it, but it's tough going for others. Kermit is an adorable character and he and Miss Piggy make a cute couple but that is not enough to sustain a feature film. 'Rainbow Connection' is a nice tune but the other songs are not memorable and there are too many of them. Although only about an hour and a half long, it seems to go on too long.
The greatest scene is the finale
Lights! Camera! Action! - It's 'The Muppet Movie'!If you like the Muppet puppets, then, you're sure to be pleasantly entertained by this 'Jim Henson' production which contains plenty of cute humor, wild sight gags, and a non-stop parade of cameo appearances by notable Hollywood celebrities.The Muppet Movie's story stars Kermit, the frog, who travels across America (from the swamps of Florida to the bright lights of Tinseltown), seeking his claim to fame and fortune.All-in-all - 'The Muppet Movie' is a lot of fun-fun-fun that delivers a big bang in the end.
I never watched or loved any Muppet movie so I feel no emotional connection or nostalgic one with this characters. The movie has some funny puns but they get old and irritating after while. I guess I wasn't the target audience for this movie.
One of the great origin stories cleverly framed as a rollicking road movie. Still, the power of 'The Muppet Movie' lies in the cameos and the music; and that's perfectly fine because this is a treat on both fronts. The celebrity appearances are high quality and Paul Williams plies his sorcery as a songwriter. This soundtrack is outstanding!Put it this way: if you're having a bad day, the pop this bad-boy in; it's a hypodermic shot of happiness. It's why 'Rainbow Connection' will always hit you right in the solar plexus.
The Muppets made their big screen debut in this 1979 film, which acts as a blue print for all the others that have followed it.Wisely showing how the Muppets came to be this film has all the charm, humour and cameos that we have come to expect. It also boasts the classic song 'The Rainbow Connection', which continues to be as profound today as it was then.I think the film is quite slow in places and obviously the big name cameos at the time are less impressive today for younger viewers.However it's fun and enjoyable enough viewing and is certainly one of the better outings for Kermit and the gang.
A delight from start to finish.If you don't like the Muppets, then I just have to feel sorry for you. This terrific film doesn't simply cash in on the Muppets' popularity -- it's a well-conceived and well-written film in its own right. It's got great songs, and it has that thread of wistful melancholy that was always present in Jim Henson's creations and which is most personified in the character of Kermit the Frog. I always responded to this as a kid, and it's what makes the Muppets still enjoyable to me as an adult when other material aimed at children drives me crazy.A huge cast of big names appearing in cameos makes this film feel like a kiddie-sized version of 'Around the World in 80 Days,' except that it's about 80 times better.Grade: A
I first saw this movie as a teenager when it came out in theaters, way back when. Seeing it again, nearly 30 years later, I was surprised at how well it has held up. The gags are still funny, the interaction between characters works great, and the cameos come off better than ever. (Steve Martin's has to be the best one.) My kids (9, 11, and 14) all loved it, and the music is good enough that they are still humming the tunes many days later.I would suggest that before seeing the movie, you should view at least a half-dozen episodes of the Muppet Show, to get a sense of the back-story behind the characters, otherwise the movie won't make all that much sense.
As Muppet movies go, this is easily and clearly the best. It features loads of cameos by big named comedic stars of the age, a solid script, and some great Disneyesque songs, and blends them together in a culmination of the best display of Henson's talent. The story is basic, and the jokes are many-leveled in order to amuse both the adults and the kids to which this was marketed, without exposing them to ideologies their parents may not find desirable.This is simply fun, but it is also a well made, well written, beautifully endearing classic.It rates an 8.9/10 from...the Fiend :.
This wonderful movie captures so many elements of what makes a family comedy funny, entertaining, sweet and memorable, it's difficult to decide where to start.From the opening number, 'Rainbow Connection,' Paul Williams's excellent score sung with gusto by Kermit D. Frog, which gives us a prologue of what the whole adventure is about, throughout the story, this is one fun movie.Essentially, it's a road trip movie, where Kermit travels cross-country with a dream of pursuing a 'rich and famous contract' to entertain. Along the way, our green hero meets a series of other aspiring actors, comedians, singers, and musicians, who coincidentally, are muppets like Kermit himself. Is this how the Muppets really started? 'Approximately how it happened,' Kermit tells us.Not since 'It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World' has the cameo formula been used so prolifically and successfully. The aspiring stars encounter many recognizable faces during their Odyssey; some just blink across the screen, but others have very memorable cameos. Steve Martin's amusing bit as a rude waiter is probably the best. Puppeteer Jim Henson's nod to his inspiration, Edgar Bergen, is especially touching.Anyone who ever watched the Muppets TV show will get to see all of their favorite characters, they're all here. The puppetry work is magnificent; look especially for Kermit riding a bicycle (how dey do dat???) In-jokes and references to old movies are everywhere, but the best one-liners are reserved for Kermit himself. An example: when the crooks are terrorizing Kermit and Piggy, she affectionately says to her short, green, and handsome beau, 'I wouldn't give up this evening together for anything, would you?' 'Uhhh, make me an offer....' I also love the gunfight at the OK Corral scene: brilliantly absurd silliness.Gotta get 'Movin' right along' now, but to summarize: a good natured movie that can be enjoyed by anyone, regardless of age or movie genre taste. Highly recommended.
The mature one-liners come with machine-gun rapidity right from the start.Man in boat: I'm lost. Kermit: Have you tried Hare Krishna?Kermit: That's pretty dangerous to be building a road in the middle of the street. If frogs couldn't hop, I'd be 'gone with the Schwynne.'Fozzie: The dancing girls are off tonight. Kermit: The crowd is getting ugly. Fozzie: You think the crowd is ugly...you should see the dancing girls.Fozzie: I don't know how to thank you. Kermit: I don't know why to thank you.The visuals are a real treat for the kids - will we ever forget seeing the muppets with real legs? Kermit riding his bike, Fozzie dancing...Perhaps the screenplay can't compete with the modern use of computers (Shrek, Monsters Inc., Ice Age, Finding Nemo are sumptuous visual feasts); but the charm and timing of the Muppet Movie hearkens to a simpler time that warms the heart.
'The Muppet Movie' is one of those films that just puts a smile on your face. It is silly and totally outlandish, but it has a unique charm that makes it a worthy and endearing production in the end. Kermit is persuaded to go to Hollywood by agent Dom DeLuise to make it big as an entertainer and ends up escorting his Muppet friends along the way. He must also dodge Charles Durning though as he wants Kermit's frog legs. Cameos all over the place and the amazing theme song, 'The Rainbow Connection' (which even received an Oscar nomination for that year), continue to make 'The Muppet Movie' one of the more memorable fun trips to the theater in the late-1970s. 4 stars out of 5.
The Muppet Movie is just not for kids but adults as well.It has a lot big stars in the film.I was amazed by how the muppets were like Kermit riding a bike and Fozzie driving a car.The film is funny and very entertaining and I think this is a movie for everyone to enjoy!
Quality entertainment all around. The spectacle of Kermit on his bicycle is one thats as memorable as ANY in cinema history. There's just not a bad thing to be said. Tons of muppets, great cameos, slapstick, puns, whatever you want, its here. The lovers, the dreamers, and me INDEED.
The first of the Muppet films! And at the time there were skeptics who said that A Muppet film couldn't be done. Boy, were they proved wrong! Jim Henson and co. provide pure entertainment throughout the whole picture.SPOILER WARNINGS:The film is essentially a road movie.  After meeting a Hollywood agent and learning that a big film studio is holding auditions, Kermit the Frog hits the road, picking up various friends on the way.  First he meets Fozzie Bear, telling jokes in a nasty cafe.  Then they meet Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem, and then Gonzo and his chicken friend Camilla, and then the incomparable Miss Piggy, and finally Rowlf the Dog.  All of these guys decide to head for Tinseltown to hit the big time.But there is trouble in the form of shady Southern businessman Doc Hopper. He intends to open a chain of frog-leg restaurants and wants Kermit to be his spokesman.  Doc won't take no for an answer and tries just about every trick in the book to get his way.  The Muppets themselves are brilliant, Charles Durning as Doc Hopper is a suitably hissable bad guy, and the celebrity guest artists who cameo are all great, particularly Mel Brooks as a mad scientist and Steve Martin as an unbelievably sarcastic waiter.  The best part of the movie is without a doubt the songs, the stand outs being the Oscar-nominated 'Rainbow Connection' and Gonzo's song 'I'm Going To Go Back There Someday' (which inspired the plot of the later MUPPETS FROM SPACE).  A treat for all the family!
One of the greatest offerings of the 70's, the Muppets offer worthwhile entertainment for kids without speaking down to them. This movie is still as good 23 years later and the celebrity cameos really add entertainment value.
I have just seen this movie for the first time in 23yrs...and oddly enough those numbers should make me feel OLD...but infact the very opposite...its amazing to think a soundtrack to a film can influence ur music tastes for decades to come (should that be admitted or not?)
smart writing and clever (buffy the hand puppet episode?) it has stood the test of this cynical 34yr old's time...the best of all 'road movies' with everything from a look to the stars (gonzo's lament) ala Lion King to a 4ft pruneand for godsake bring back a movie with obvious cameos
'life's like a movie write your own ending'
Colorful, scenically pleasing, humorous for the adults..but mostly fantastic adventure with all the lovable muppet characters and their songs.  I still cry at the end.  The interactions with the muppets and people are very believable.  This kind of masterpiece cannot be made today.  (The movie where the muppets go to space proves that)

**** *YEAR_1980

I saw this the first time in the 90's. Some of the animation is very similar to that in the film Wizards (1977). I will have to take time, at some point, to look through the list of crew to see if there are any matches.
Based on the first two books in The Chronicles of Prydain by Lloyd Alexander, this movie had been in production since 1973 - twelve years! - before it got released by a Disney that wasn't looking to play it safe. Actual production may not have started until 1980, but man - talk about a movie that was long in the making.Another reason why the movie took so long to get to theaters was because of a horrific test screening of the rough cut inside Disney's private theater in Burbank, California. The 'cauldron born' sequence was so intense that most of the children in the theater literally ran out, which led to new Disney chairman Jeffrey Katzenberg ordering them to be cut. When producer Joe Hale objected, Katzenberg got an edit suite and did it himself. Hale went to Disney CEO Michael Eisner and put a stop to that, but the new edits causes a seven month delay and you can still see noticable jumps in what was removed.The release of the film was a major loss for Walt Disney Studios and put the future of the animation department in jeopardy, giving The Black Cauldron the nickname 'the film that almost killed Disney.' I guess that means that we'll never see the other three novels in The Chronicles of Prydain huh?Katezenberg would later say that the film lacked 'the humor, pathos, and the fantasy which had been so strong in Lloyd Alexander's work. The story had been a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and it was heartbreaking to see such wonderful material wasted.' As for the author, he claimed, 'First, I have to say, there is no resemblance between the movie and the book. Having said that, the movie in itself, purely as a movie, I found to be very enjoyable. I had fun watching it. What I would hope is that anyone who sees the movie would certainly enjoy it, but I'd also hope that they'd actually read the book.'Look - it's a movie with John Hurt's voice of a gigantic Satanic Horned King, as well as voiceovers by John Huston as the narrator and John Byner as the heroic Gurgi. Of course I'm going to be inclined to like this, even if it came nowhere near my small town in 1985 and wasn't released on video for more than a decade.The film is all about the adventures of Taran who has dreams of becoming a famous warrior. A sorceror named Dallben worries that the Horned King will use his psychic pig - yes really - Hen Wen - double yes really - to locate the Black Cauldron, an occult tool that can create an invicible army of the dead. Why was this made? Who would have such a use for it? And why wasn't it destroyed?Well, we wouldn't have a movie otherwise.I had to step away from our live Disney week and make an exception for this film. I'd never seen it and it was high time I changed that.It's kind of amazing that after 2.5 million total drawings, 400 gallons of paint, 15,000 pencils, 300 erasers, 400 paint brushes, 1,165 different hues and colors and over 34 miles of film stock - according to Disney News Magazine Summer 1985 - that Disney buried this movie.The legend of this movie has moved on past its failure. There's a rumor that Legend of Zelda creator Shigeru Miyamoto based a lot of that game on this movie, which makes a lot of sense.
Its really not that special. I read the books and saw the deleted scenes so i know that this was a missed apotunaty. The biggest problem is that it takes too much liberties when trying to be both dark like the books, and a family friendly disney film.
The black sheep of Disney Animated films, panned by critics at the time and a big commercial failure that almost ruined the studio. I saw the film for the first time as a kid in its theatrical release and I have seen it again several times (this last one in a beautiful 4K restoration), and even though it has undeniable problems of writing, characterization and pace, it also conveys the best of the fantasy films from the 80s and is a true attempt at a darker kids' film, with lavish animation and beautiful designs (kind of in the same vein as the Laserdisc videogame 'Dragon's Lair'). A permanent cult favourite of mine. 8/10.
It good movie I seen it 100 times do you came out the year I was born in 1985
It was one of the best famous movies ever it was a good cartoon storyline raided by the Arthur Lloyd Alexander. He tells a great story.
The Black Cauldron is probably one of my top favorite Disney movies, and is probably better than most of the movies Disney has made in the last 15 years. The funny thing about this movie is I only watched it once when I was younger and vaguely remembered it, all I remembered was The Horned King and how even as a child I thought he was awesome. I recently watched it a few days ago after not seeing it in so many years and because I'm an adult now, I was able to see it for the classic that it is. The movie itself has a very sad but interesting production history, it was stuck in development hell since the 70s and wasn't worked on till the 80s, not only that one of the higher-ups at Disney wanted to make this movie more marketable for children even though it's original audience was for teenagers and young adults. Which ended up hurting the film due to 12 minutes of footage having to be cut (from the graphic violence and the cauldron born scene, to just moments of character development) which was unheard of for an animated movie back then, since in the 80s they were more concerned about cutting slasher movies and horror movies.The movie unfortunately bombed at the box office and was even dubbed 'the movie that almost killed Disney', the movie didn't even receive a home release until the late '90s which I didn't even know and makes me even more bummed that they tried to deny its existence for so long. Disney made return to Oz and even though it was such a dark movie and a complete opposite of The wizard of Oz, it still somehow received a home release before The Black Cauldron. Had the movie been kept in its original format and given a PG-13 rating (which was still new at the time), it could have been one of the most important films Disney made. So even back then Disney was screwing itself over with bad decisions, a lesson they have yet to learn in the present. What makes a company so great is when they're not afraid to take risks, because when you always play it safe, you might hurt yourself in the long run.
Viewed on: Disney+.Fantasy epic that sees young farmhand Taran get the heroic adventure he's always wanted when the villainous Horned King sets his sights on Hen Wen, a pig with the powers of an oracle that Taran is tasked with safeguarding. If the Horned King has his way he'll get his hands on the titular 'Black Cauldron', an object with the soul of an evil king trapped within, and who's owner can summon an army of the undead.It's surprisingly dark for a *Disney* flick (not in a bloody way, but in a moody way), with the Horned King being absolutely nightmarish in appearance, and his castle hauntingly beautiful with some fantastic animation & special effects on display. Unfortunately that's all it really has going for it, with a plot & cast that's generic to a fault. It's not really bad by any means, just very been there done that, and not even the little comic relief creature really grew on me.
Disney had so much amazing content to work with, but they instead made a boring cliche story with exhausting and forgettable characters. But it does have gorgeous animation, perfect colour pallet and a terrifying villain to keep it from being awful.
A very poor adaption of the Chronicles of Prydain books, which inconsistent looking animation and some very bland characters that replaced snappy dialogue and compelling characterization from the Prydain novels. Not to mention utter tonal shifts at time. I felt the voice acting was rather bad too.The only positives I give this movie is that it was experimental for a Disney movie and a bit darker than their material at the time. Also, Elmer Bernstein's score is excellent. However, just because there was a darker tone and aesthetic, it does not change the poor plotting and character writing the movie suffers.I can see why Disney suffered from this movie. It's just not very good compared to fantasy films they had made previously. I feel Prydain was a weird series to turn so dark and edgy. Yes, it has dark elements, but there are some very graphic and kind of adult scenes that never featured in the books. And it hurts to watch for Prydain fans, who enjoyed the character building from the books which is just not found here.I really would never watch this movie again. The Prydain books, on the other hand, are worth a re-read!
One of Disney's finest work and I also think it's an absolute incredible as well of the 80s it's just absolutely amazing I think it's a belter of a film
Although the Black Cauldron is not the first thing that pops to mind when you think Disney, in my opinion it is an underrated classic. Just by the title of the movie you can tell it is different, for starters it was the first Disney animated movie to be rated PG. I grew up watching Disney and I have spend 2020 trying to catch up on lesser known movies from the dark age era (1960s - 1980s) Let me say this was totally worth watching and I was engaged the whole time. It was not predictable and even though the animation is a little choppy it seems good for it's time. I would recommend this for older kids and I would but this toward the top of my favorite Disney movies list.
I remember i got scared of this movie as a kid in the early 2000's when my dad bought it. But now when I'm in my almost 30's . It has been 10 years last i saw it. I'm watching it right now on Disney+
This is the darkest Disney film I have seen. A lot of that has to do with the expressive, creepy and very distinctive animation. The film is probably better to look at than to listen too. There's a lot of inky moodiness in the film and the overall look is the stuff of high fantasy. Unfortunately the narrative doesn't do the animation justice.The resulting story is confusing because you feel like you get dropped into the middle of a story. The best example of this is a key character is revealed to have been lying the entire time in the third act and yet nothing comes of it. And I don't remember a clear set-up for the story beat. The characters are too thin and not given enough to do in the story-such as it is-to really resonant. It is a pity because this is the most idiosyncratic film's in the Disney canon.
As with any Disney movie, the backgrounds and animation are quite memorable. The sound mixing is superb, with lots of eerie and spot-on ambient sounds. Has an interesting premise and a well done first act. The world showed promise, and abundance of lore and legends worth exploring.....
But there are too many boring characters, and a story that lacks in depth and details. Between a Lich creature amongst humans (with no powers? Still, being a Lich is somewhat impressive, and could have been used more effectively instead of just being a fact), an Oracle-Pig that doesn't really serve as the story's McGuffin and is easily put aside for 'more things' (how does a pig tell the future?), a Gollum like creature that is sort of dumb with a big heart (no real emotional connection to it's sacrifice, since he is borderline-annoying), an old-man Bard that does absolutely nothing, and a useless boy-lead that finds the 'ultimate most-powerful Weapon'.
The worst part of the story are the 3 witches (almost a cliché in movies) that can do and have everything. They almost serve the role of the Genie in Aladdin, but are very poorly written into the movie.
The quest is rather simplistic and easily solved by 'going to next place'. It's too bare to my liking.In general, it is forgettable at best.. though, I quite like the design of the little princess and her general personality. She is likeable and driven. Could have been the focus of a better movie.. I feel like it's a waste, but at least she exists somewhere.
You know about Disney's Princess movies, you know about their iconic songs, but you've probably never heard of the film The Black Cauldron. This was Disney's 25th animated feature film so it definitely had a lot of pressure to make an impression for the audience. Let's just say, it did not live up to those expectations....for them.But I actually really like this movie! It's a fantasy movie that takes place in the Middle Ages. It deals with an evil king who wants to raise the dead with a magic cauldron, so our main characters who are made up of a young kid, a princess, an old man, and a small creature have to stop him. If it sounds like a weird group, they are LOL but somehow it just works, in my opinion.This movie is definitely one of Disney's darker films because of its tone, villain, and story. Btw it's the first Disney animated film to be rated PG. I can imagine this movie traumatized the kids who watched it because of how different it is from the classic Disney movies we all know and loveI watched this on Disney+ and it really looked good to me in this HD format. I liked the visuals in it, especially any scene with the villain, the Horned King. He's usually in shadow, but when you see him more and more, you can't help but be creeped out, even a little. It also helps that he's voiced by the late John Hurt, who had such a unique and powerful voice, without even having to yell.All in all, this movie isn't for everyone. I wasn't sure that I was gonna like it because I'm not into the fantasy genre, but it kept me interested the whole time. The villain is the biggest highlight for me. I say give it a try! It's an underrated Disney movie and if you have Disney+, why not??
This movie doesn't deserve the Disney name. It's nothing like a Disney movie. I thought the sound was off. For example when one of the characters spoke it didn't seem like it fit the character or that it was coming from them. The animation was way too fake, you know computery- - not comparable to past Disney. I noticed it right away with the pig which changed many different shades of pink within the first few seconds you see it. The princess' hair looks ugly green at times. This isn't a happy movie. All the characters in the movie are in dire straits from the first scene to the end. I never enjoyed a single scene of love, joy, or fun. There is nothing but danger, trouble, and evil deeds. It doesn't even have a normal happy ending. It has some sort of mystical unrealistic end. I didn't like this at all. I do not recommend for children.
Having never gotten an major bonus items from my phone company before,I was shocked to get a txt offering me Disney + for free,for 6 months! Accepting the offer straight away,I started thinking about what to watch first. Having been interested in seeing the title for years due to how about how different it is to other Disney fare of the era, I looked into the cauldron.View on the film:Hitting a number of landmarks by being: the first animated title filmed in widescreen,the first to incorporate CGI, the first to not feature any songs and surprisingly being the first to have closing credits,along with infamously causing Uncle Walt to be given a PG,leading to the studio to delete completed sequences, the first time Disney studio had done this since Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937)!Placing all these firsts into the cauldron, directors Ted Berman & Richard Rich surprisingly conjure up a brisk potion, dripping a rich Gothic Horror atmosphere in Horned King's castle, which has a rough-edged Ralph Bakshi inspired style, (Bakshi was offered the chance to be involved in the production, but turned it down due to think ing that his style was too mature for the studio) that gives the Horned King and his army of the dead a macabre Brothers Grimm appearance.Making the cauldron bubble away as John Byner gives sidekick Gurgi a proto- Gollum voice, the directors keep the CGI as a enhancement tool to the hand-drawn animation, adding a depth of field to the decaying castle and the green smoke from the cauldron which engulfs everyone.Gutting 10-15 minutes out of the finished film based on the first two of Lloyd Alexander's novels, the 16 writers are sadly unable to overcome the bumps in the road, with the very good, eerie catacombs exploration Taran and Princess Eilonwy (who in a refreshing move,are not love interest) take in searching the Gwythaints/ dragon and snivelling henchmen-filled locations.After opening with a simmering intro,the film is sadly undercut by a ending which shoves the creepy army of the dead and Taran's final fight with Horned King into a rushed, clearly cut ending, that damages all the build-up which had taken place, taking the cauldron off the boil.
As you know I've seen this movie when I was a kid in the 1980s and 1990s and I've seen this on VHS and later on DVD. This movie was scary even the epic scene with the Black Cauldron skeletons coming to life. Later on I've read the Prydain Books and I was shocked and surprised at what changed from the books to the animated film including.Many of the beloved characters has gone missing including Arawn, Gwydion, Queen Achren, Adaon, Ellidyr and Kaw the crow. Seriously where the heck is Gwydion, and where's Coll? I'm disappointed that this film left out memorable characters from the book.Also why is the Horned King sitting on his throne in the castle, in the book he was hunting Taran to capture him. The Horned King was burned to death in the battlefield he didn't get sucked into the Black Cauldron like in the film. I'm disappointed. Also why is Gurgi the one who sacrfices himself into the black cauldron that was Ellidyr.Also where was the witch Queen Archen? She was the one who broke Gwydions sword and had both Taran and Gwydion tortured.I didn't like the character changes with Taran in the film from the book as he was chasing Hen Wen the pig and ran away from home, but Taran didn't pack and go on a journey like in the film.Also I didn't like it that Princess Eilonwy has golden hair instead of red hair. Also she didn't whine in the book and act helpless like damsel in distress in the movie. Also I didn't like it that they made Fflewddur Fflam an old man instead of a younger blonde man. And the worst part is when Doli is no longer a dwarf but a flying fairy.And Taran cannot even hold the magical sword Dyrnwyn like in the movie as it burns Tarans hands. I'm also disappointed the crow Kaw is absent. Also the scene with the 3 witches Taran did not trade his sword Dyrnwyn in but rather traded Adaons brooch instead for the Black Cauldron.The epic scene with the Black Cauldron of skeletons coming to life and then dying with the Horned King and Gurgi's sacrifice and revival and the ending with the 4 companions going home was very disappointing.The Disney animated company rushed this movie and crammed 2 books into one sloppy film. This film is bad along with other films like Eragon.And to this day I'm now waiting for a proper remake of The Black Cauldron. Since Disney+ has launched, why can't the Disney Company remake this crummy Prydain film? Or better yet why not make it a TV series and call it Prydain Chronicles? The remake should either be CGI animated film like 'How to Train Your Dragon' films or like 'Lord of the Rings' remake films with CGI animated scenes.If the Disney company reads this review, Please remake this film and listen to your fanbase. Look at The Sword in the Stone 1963, they did make changes from the book but they still kept themes from the book whereas this film deviates from the book mostly. Don't make mayor changes like you've done with your flopped animated film. And if you do make it a TV show, don't make it like Shannara Chronicles 2016 which was bad by the way or you'll turn off the fans of Prydain.If you do get this on DVD, skip the movie and watch the Donald Duck cartoon Trick or Treat 1952 which is the only good thing about the DVD but otherwise skip this crummy film and read the 5 Prydain books instead, I'm surprised the late book author Lloyd Alexander praised this crummy animated film.
The Black Cauldron feels like somebody trying to tell a very complicated story in the simplest of terms. Yes, Gurgi is an adorable character, but the rest are fairly unremarkable. Also, Disney's budget must have been slashed for this movie, because the animation looks shoddy. I saw this one when I was a kid, but didn't really remember it, and I'm pretty sure I'll forget it again soon.
I used to watch this movie all the time as a kid, despite being one of Disney's less popular ones, this one I really really enjoyed, I would watch it a lot more than films like The Lion King, which I never was really fond of.After a revisit, I noticed lots of things that fail. First of all, nobody does much of anything and not much happens, most of the things happen by chance or by an external force, like the witches for example.The only time Taran does something remarkable is in the beginning when he escapes the castle with the sword, after that all they do is wander around in the woods until they find this hidden fairy world, then a fairy guides them to the witches who give them the cauldron, Taran and friends get captured, saved by Gurgi and movie basically ends. Taran barely does anything and Eilonwy and Fflewddur don't do anything besides companionship, you could remove them and nothing remarkable will change, it's a shame because they are quite likeable characters.That also brings me to the villain, The Horned King doesnt do ANYTHING, does he even have powers? All he does is sit around and wait until somebody brings him the cauldron, and he barely is in the movie, his demise is also super anti climatic, as it is with that whole ''climax'' the army of the dead are revived for like two minutes and then dead again. Don't get me wrong, the way he dies is super cool and visually amazing but what leads up to that not so much, he wrestles with taran for like 10 seconds and then gets dragged by the air stream, yeah, there is no ''final battle'' at all. A waste of one of Disney's most terrifying villains.The artistic aspect of it is on par with disney's biggest movies, in that aspect it doesn't dissappoint, the backgrounds are gorgeous and super detailed. However I do have to say the character design is quite uninteresting, the three main human characters are literally different versions of Taran, Eilonwy is a female version and Fflewddur is an old version, they literally have the same face.With that said, far from this disney's worst, it is pretty good and I believe it has that disctintive Disney quality, the soundtrack is also one of the most memorable I've heard in a Disney movie.
I don't know why this film has so Little love. I really enjoyed it, especially the darkness and horror elements.It's a great fantasy tale, even if the parts feel somewhat disjointed and the characters aren't fully fleshed out. It's still a really fun and action packed film. Fantasy tropes abound.
The last of the Disney crew that had been with the studio since Snow White retired after the release of The Fox And The Hound. The baton was passed onto the next generation of artists.Unfortunately, like most newly established crews, their first film was not successful. It was a critical and commercial failure. So much so that it took over a decade for it to see the light of day again. Is it as bad as critics and fans have made it out to be? Not really.There are a lot of great elements in this film. Some of them were not utilized to the fullest extent. The basic idea of a boy joining forces with a princess and another supporting man echoes the strong points of Star Wars. The relationship between Taran and the Princess was good. I compare it to the Ghibli film Castle In The Sky, which came out the following year. In fact, I can imagine, Miyazaki seeing this film, during production, and thinking 'we can do this much better with the film we're currently working on'The three witches were also entertaining (much more so than Madam Mim). Orwen's infatuation with Ffleuder was funny and mildly naughty.Unlike some fans, I found Gurgi to be more cute than annoying. They mishandled his cowardly nature. His redemption at the end was a sad moment.I reckon the dark and grotesque moments did not endure movie goers whom were not accustomed to that in a Disney film.Overall, this is a Disney film worth seeking out. Maybe not the best for younger children, but definitely an unappreciated classic.
This movie was released when I was 4 years old, fondly got around to watching it at almost 40!This is actually one of Disney's best. Ferociously underrated. It's very different from the usual Disney fair, and this was the 'problem'. It wasn't all happy and singing from start to finish. No singing at all.A bunch of rag tag misfits rally together to save the day. Nothing exceptionally new, but the way it is presented is different from the Disney norm. I loved the darker, more serious tone. It made it seem a more perilous task to reach the cauldron, and the horned King was a terrific villain, who deserved more screen time.The movie was beautifully drawn and coloured, and was spectacularly animated.Some of the characters and other things were a bit unnecessary though, and didn't add anything (especially the harp. What was its purpose?)All in all, a thoroughly enjoyable adventure and now place this amongst my favourite Disney movies alongside Aladdin, Robin Hood and the Lion King.
This film is quite underrated. Many would probably say that it is a movie that sent Disney into its financial issues that it faced. This movie would be 'scary' for younger children just as The Lord of the Rings would be for them. This story emulates a lot of what The LOTR trilogy has. Evil king, undead army, a group of misfits looking for one thing, a small sidekick, and the destruction of the said evil. This story is one that I really enjoy and I hope that people take a second chance and watch this movie now that they can on Disney+.
It has been a number of decades since I have seen this.How does it stand up?
Not too bad.A young boy wanting to be a hero, finds himself on a quest to save the world.
On the way he gets in lots of trouble and finds some friends on the way.
Sound familiar?This was made make in a time when there weren't strictly family films. So it is quite dark by today's system.
The animation looks quite janky but the backgrounds and art are beautiful.
The story is a bit bloated and wobbles all over the place: there are whole areas that aren't needed.The best character by far is the sassy princess who randomly rocks up to save the day. Also the pig is pretty cute.As an adult my attention wasn't held but I think children might stay with it.
There is no songs are heart warming moments but lots of running from goblins, monsters and witches.
I remember loving this as a kid and if you have it on a service it is worth a watch if nothing more than a bit of contrast.
'The Black Cauldron' is a rather solid, if unspectacular, film.I had a decent time, all thanks to the premise which is entertaining enough. The characters are all good, I like the variety. The villain, Horned King, is satisfactorily worrisome. I would've preferred extra depth into all those involved, especially the king and even Taran & Co.None of the voice cast are notable in all honesty, though they all serve the purpose for what they are intended for. The animation and music, like basically the whole film in general, is perfectly fine. Everything could've been grander, but I think it does enough to warrant a respectable rating.Probably forgettable, but this is definitely a good Disney animated film.
In this film, and I can't quite put my finger on it. Good animation with detailed backgrounds. A great musical score by Elmer Bernstein, and yet it has a thrown-together quality about it. A typical Disney Prince and Princess set up and both characters are quite agreeable. Weird 'mascots' include a talking 'Gergi animal' and I can't quite figure out what it is supposed to be. A pig that can see into the future. A mischievous goblin that belongs to the horned king. There is a magic sword. Three annoying slightly-evil witches. A horrendous horned villain that reminds me of 'Skeletor'. Fairyfolk (male). A truly creepy scene involving resurrected dead skeletons that are supposed to kill everything and plunder the Earth. An unimpressive (to me) magically evil black caldron. Maybe it was all too much in one movie? I felt that I had seen it all before. I Viewed it as a curiosity only, and I can see why it was a failure at the box office. I didn't really like it that much in spite of its good production values.
The animation is not outstanding, but it is good enough.The story has its problems.
There are people saying this movie is underrated cause it is too dark, and I dont understand why. I think there are dark movies, even Disney movies like Pinocchio or Bambi, but the Black Cauldron is not one of those.
It is not the most colorful, neither a the most childish, but is not the darkest oneAnyway, that's not why this is a bad movie:
There are irrelevant characters, there is not an evolution arc in the main character, also he didn't even resolve the conflict, there is a flat villain, a predictable conclusion, even back in 80s.I think that they didn't really care about the story, so, the not outstanding but good enough animation is the only good thing in this.You can watch it and forget it.
This film has a distinct style - it's like the medieval England of The Sword in the Stone but updated for the tastes of dark 80s fantasy like Labyrinth, Willow and The Dark Crystal. This is the best part of it, and it starts off with a lot of potential, but it is anticlimactic.
I don't like the Black Cauldron. There are quite some reasons why. It was stereotypical towards Gypsies (I was screaming to have it turned off, because even though it wasn't my culture, I hate a movie even if it has just one stereotype.), many of the characters were bland and the storytelling was very weak. But, Princess Elionwy my favorite character. She's spunky and sweet, and Ariel probably wouldn't have her free spirt if it weren't for her. And Gurgi's fine I guess. I mean, he's actually kind of cute in my opinion. And the visuals are great.I've realized that maybe I've been a bit TOO harsh on this movie. So all in all, The Black Cauldron is a visually beautiful film that lacks good storytelling.
This animation is very horrible. Nothing here is good
A messy movie. badly done. it doesn't look like the essence of disney movies. undoubtedly in the top 5 of Disney's worst animations. the colors of the characters always change and there are several errors of continuity
This animation movie is neither for children (scary) nor for adults (stupid).
Watched The Black Cauldron amazing voice Performances from Grant Bardsley as Taran, Susan Sheridan( Moomin) as Princess Eilonwy also starring John Byner(Stroker Ace) as Gurgi & Doli, Nigel Hathworne(Yes Prime Minister) as Fflewddue Fflam, Freddie Jones(Krull, Dune) as Dalben, and Sir John Hurt(Alien) as The Horned King.The film was great even though it was dark also It had an epic feel also loved it was a quest to stop the Horned King also there characters go thru growth especially Taran who comes out differently which was great.Amazing score Elmer Bernstein(Ghostbusters), Directing By Richard Rich(The Fox And The Sound) & Ted Berman(Bednoobs & Broomsticks) A Great Dark Fantasy From Disney That will Likely Be Never Done Again. 8/10
I really wanted to like this movie, I really did, and while I love the setting, that's about it. This movie definitely had potential, but it's too shallow in the character department. The characters were so under developed and boring that I can't even remember most of their names! I remember Gurgey because he's some weird creature (that is never explained,) and Henwin because they simply say her name EVERY TWO SECONDS. Everyone else I forgot about. Let's see, there's the main character who wants to be a famous warrior. There's the princess, and that all I have to say about her. There's the minstrel guy, who basically does nothing throughout the entire film. Finally, there's the villain, the horned king. I don't find him the least bit intimidating because he never actually does anything. He kinda just 'looks' menacing. I liked the concept of this movie but the lack of decent characters really hurt the film.
This was pretty terrible. Acting was terrible, writing was terrible. I'm a huge Disney fan and endured it just so I could say I watched it once.
I remember this one as a kid Disney didn't make many like it, this film was a treat compared too most of Disney's other 'Bubble Gum' treats, I hate that Disney has not tried too bring this one to the Big screen, that's Disney for you.
This is a nostalgic favorite for me. I would watch it every Halloween after coming home with my bag full of candy.
If you're so inclined be sure to check out my review of this little known Disney classic and the Lloyd Alexander books it was based from.
Amazing movie. Unfortunately, it was too ahead of its times when launched. Today I think that the audience is much prepared and it deserves a live action version.
I don't know why Hollywood feels like it has to change classics when they take it from book form to the big screen.
The Black Cauldron is a classic, and is plenty short enough and able to be read as a stand-alone novel without having to completely change the story. Instead, they end up taking a wonderfully interesting and exciting book and making it into a bland mishmash of the Prydain Chronicle series and ends up giving us a weak story with little character development. And yes, they could have done this by staying true to the novel with a movie of this length in my opinion.
I won't even go on to point out all the glaring differences between the characters in the book as compared to the movie, though I have to say that Dori was a dwarf and NOT a faerie! So annoying!
I guess to sum it up I'd just say if you're a fan of the book you'll be sorely disappointed in this movie. If you've never read the book, the. I imagine this is a fine enough story for younger audiences.
'The Black Cauldron' is a Disney classic that few have had the chance to discover, but it's better late than never to experience this dark, strange land of Prydain.
What makes this film so great is how it is a complete paradox in comparison to other Disney films due to how unique and macabre the scenery is when compared to the typical Disney film. In The Black Cauldron, you won't find a musical, but you will find an amazing and timeless story line with many hidden references and nods to the paranormal. The story surrounds a pig keeper by the name of Taran who must venture out to defeat the Horned King (Basically Satan) so that the antagonist does not use the legendary Black Cauldron to his advantage. On the journey Taran runs into the beautiful Princess Eilonwy and a strange, goofy creature by the name of Gurgi. What makes this film so great is how despite all seriousness and how dark the plot is, characters like Gurgi and various situations faced by the protagonists add so much humor and charm to a rather dystopian medieval world, which not only makes the film more enjoyable as a whole, but goes as another example of it's genius. Other than the phenomenal story line and dark humor, this film is widely credited for pioneering legendary director Tim Burton's career and legacy with Disney as a brand. Burton worked as a concept artist during the making of this film and his beautiful yet grotesque art style is portrayed phenomenally due to the significance of his work in the film's art style. The only heart wrenching aspect of this film is how it has been credited for being one of the worst-grossing Disney films in box office history, this is due to how the film only made 22 Million U.S Dollars despite it's budget which was nearly double that at 44 Million U.S Dollars, it is quite a shame that this film was never really appreciated until it got a small, but growing cult following through the years, but one thing is certain, YOU MUST WATCH THIS FILM! It is unlike anything else and it should be preserved as a fascinating part of Disney history.11/27/2019
Shant
This Disney animation tells the story of Taran, a pig keeper's assistant who dreams of being a hero. He lives in a land ruled by the evil Horned King; a king who is seeking the near mythical Black Cauldron that will gives its owner power to raise an undead army. Pig keeper Dallben has a pig named Hen Wen who can predict the future and fears the Horned King will steal it to help him find the cauldron so tells Taran to take him somewhere safe. And so Taran's adventures begin. While he imagines himself being heroic Hen Wen is taken by the Horned King's creatures. To rescue him Taran will have to become a real hero. He soon meets up with a creature called Gurgi and after an encounter in the castle they team up with Princess Eilonwy and Ffewddur Fflam, a minstrel and together they seek to rescue Hen Wen and find the cauldron.Typically one associates Disney animation with gentle adventures accompanied by regular songs; this is different... there are no songs and there is often a real sense of danger. Thankfully things are lightened by the occasional comical moment. The characters are a lot of fun with solid heroes and suitably wicked villains. Each of which has an amusing sidekick; in the case of Taran that is Gurgi and in that of The Horned King it is Creeper, a goblin like creature. The story is perhaps a bit episodic but that isn't really a problem as each section features thrilling moments. The animation is impressive, as one would expect from Disney. Overall I'd say that while this might not be one of the best known of Disney's films it is still well worth watching; it might be a little scary for younger viewers though.
Visually this movie is true to its 80s animation style, the color use isn't as vibrant as it would become during the 'renaissance' era and the general vibe it gave me was mostly the opposite to The Sword in the Stone.
But things probably progress too fast to make sense to young minds.All in all, it's not bad, but I feel like this isn't a 'kids movie', more like a 'story for early teens watered down for kids' and it might have benefitted from 20 to 30 extra minutes to more properly delve into the story.
I personally really appreciate the interesting story, tone, and mood this movie conveys. Disney took some interesting chances with this film, and financially it did not pay off, I assume because Disney's audience in the '80s could not appreciate the slightly darker tone of the film, then again, if you compare this movie with the likes of The Dark Crystal or Labyrinth, this movie is mild in its creative weirdness. The story feels like a rushed epic, but in the end, the movie remains as something that, in the world of animated films, Disney never attempted again, and it is a shame.
After his beloved pig is kidnapped, a young boy enters the kingdom of the dreaded Horned King, he meets a princess and must save everyone from the King's wrath.The Black Cauldron deviates entirely from any other film from the Walt Disney Animated Studios canon.
It features dark imagery (hence the PG rating for 'some scary images'), a creepy atmosphere and exciting adventure scenes.The main downfall I had with this movie was it's pace, it felt a tad slow at times.
Also you'll probably want to keep young children away from this one, as it will frighten them.But all in all, The Black Cauldron is a darkly fun venture into a much different realm then Disney has previously gone down.
Definitely worth the watch!
And rightfully so... The movie was dull, meandering and unfocused.Another poster said that this was based on a series of books that I am not familiar with, but given that Disney is well known for taking 'Creative liberties' with material, I'm probably just as well off having not read them...Has some familiar voice talent, John Hurt wasn't easily recognizable, but he had yet to acquire that gravelly tone to this voice in his career. John Huston did narration and it was immediately obvious it was him.So the plot is that a young boy who dreams of adventure who was totally not Luke Skywalker finds a magic sword. He is in a race to find a magic cauldron before totally not Darth Vader (voiced by Hurt) finds it and creates an Army of the Dead. so there are a lot of disconnected scenes where it almost feels like the animators were working on different movies and they just slapped it all together in post. I think there was something about a pig that got forgotten halfway through the movie.The animation was poor, not as good as classic Disney and not yet up to the Neo-Disney quality that started with the Little Mermaid.
I did not believe it at first, when I heard of this movie, but it's true. In fact, Disney did not go very well in the 1980s, it first launches the movie 'Return to Oz' which was already quite frightening and scary and now releases this movie that is 20 times worse.
The movie had a scary vibe, horrible characters, a scary story (even for an adult) and one of the worst villains in Walt Disney Pictures history.
No wonder it went bankrupt in the '80s, this movie was completely scary and unappealing to children; It was not like the Disney movies, with good songs, friendly characters and history for the whole family, was the OPPOSITE.
Actually, the movie even has good points, the actors, the animation and the soundtrack were good and the story was great for a horror movie (so do not give less stars in the evaluation). I do not understand how Disney refused
to make a huge masterpiece like 'Back to the Future' to make films like this. I would not recommend anything.
Disney, if you are reading this, please do not make movies like this again, continue with those movies that are hard to do.
I must say that this is definitely one of the grittiest looking films they have made. Tbe viduak desgn us very dark looking and has an edge, which does complement the dark story. I wilk admit that I wasn't a fan of the plot and didn't really like any of the characters.
As a child I saw the trailer while watching a Disney film. I thought it would be a girly film after seeing princess ellonwy with her beautiful long, blonde hair. So we rented it at blockbusters. My parents made us stop it after an hour because it looked depressing. I didn't object because I found it boring anyway. I watched it again as an adult and have to force myself to see it through. The story just went on and on. And it's so amateur. The voices are generic, it's like watching an educational cartoon. Princess ellonwy seems so out of place in such a dark film. The horned king didn't scare me not as an adult or a child. The black cauldron is not scary, it is boring!
Despite growing up in the eighties, I seemed to completely miss Disney's 'The Black Cauldron' at the cinema and, during my numerous trips to Orlando's Disney World, I never really saw much (if any!) evidence that it even existed! I mention this because I watched it with an adult who DID see it when she was little, therefore she loved it, partly because she saw it through nostalgic eyes, whereas I merely observed it through an adult's cynical viewpoint.It's set in that well-known Disney cartoon world of magic and princesses and, in this case, apparently the story is based on an old Welsh tale (hence the vague accents which some characters attempt). A young boy is the custodian of a magic pig (yes, seriously - a swine even more powerful than Wilbur and Charlotte put together!), but this pig is wanted by an evil wizard who wants to use the pig to rule the world (and unleash an army of the undead, but I guess those two things are linked). So, when 'Babe' is kidnapped by the evil King's dragons and taken to his castle, it's up to our hero (and a couple of random others he picks up along the way) to rescue him.So, if you're thinking something along the lines of 'that's a lot of detail dedicated to the pig' then you're probably not the only one. It is a hard rasher to fry (so to speak), but, if you can get over that, it's actually a pretty good little fairytale. Yes, this means that it does suffer from all the typical fairy-tale tropes, i.e. the hero automatically bumps into a princess in need of a helping hand, a 'comic' sidekick and knowledgeable elderly helper.The characters are pretty generic, but their voice actors are decent enough to get by the - occasionally - by-the-numbers script and bring it to life enough to overlook any minor lapses. Nigel Hawthorne and John Hurt are some gravitas to the cast.I had nothing against any of the characters and was happy to enjoy them all... apart from Gurgi. There's a reason I placed the word 'comic' in quotes in my previous paragraph when referring to the 'comic' relief. Gurgi is, er, a thing - a cross between a dog, an Ewok and a Wookie and he is possibly the most annoying animated character ever committed to paint. When watching him I couldn't get Andy Serkis' CGI interpretation of Gollum in the 'Lord of the Rings' trilogy out of my head. Only Gollum was much darker and you could genuinely feel sorry for him, while at the same time being afraid enough of him because you knew he could turn on you at any moment. Gurgi is just annoying. Really annoying. I could say that the story's downfall is it's pacing - it is a bit hit and miss/stop and start, not quite knowing what it wants to be. However, for me, it's main flaw was simply this annoying little fur-ball. Yes, he's worse than Snarf from 'Thundercats!'It's hard to say whether I'd recommend 'The Black Cauldron' for kids. Yes, of course it's a classic Disney cartoon, however it is rather dark and there are some moments in there that may actually creep out really young children in a way that other similar films like Snow White and Cinderella don't.However, if you're looking for purely great animation and a decent enough little fairy-tale then this is definitely worth a watch. Oh, and I should probably mention that this is one of the few Disney cartoons that doesn't feature any music or songs throughout.
I'd heard about this movie from a Sierra game but never got a chance to watch it until the late 1990s. It seemed to have an interesting premise; a magical artifact, a would-be hero, an enchanted princess, a funny furry, and a minstrel. It's like Dungeons and Dragons or something. And I actually enjoyed watching the film. But later I read the books that inspired this Disney film, Lloyd Alexander's The Chronicles of Prydain, and was a little taken aback by all the differences from the books. Some things were just wrong. I won't say for those of you who haven't seen the movie or read the books, but you'll see what I mean. It might be decent for those of you who like D&D-styled films but if you're a fan of the Prydain books, steer clear! I don't know if I'll watch it again. Give me The Book of Three or the original Black Cauldron book any day.
A young boy and a bunch of misfit friends embark on a quest to find a dark magic item of ultimate power before a diabolical tyrant can.With the budget of $44 million, it was the most expensive animated film ever made at the time. Earning $21.3 million domestically, it led to a loss for the studio, putting the future of Walt Disney Feature Animation in jeopardy. Due to its poor performance, Disney released the film for the first time on home video in 1998.Despite growing up in the 1980s, I actually never heard of this Disney film or any of its characters. Even now (2017) when I finally watched it, it seemed like a film that never existed. If Disney tried to bury it, I can understand it being forgotten throughout the 90s, especially as their second golden age was overshadowing decades of duds.The movie itself is neither good nor bad. A few repeat viewings and it would probably grow on me, but there are no really memorable characters. And there are no songs, which is what really makes a Disney cartoon immortal.
In the 1970s, the Walt Disney Company was not doing so well. Considering both Walt and his brother Roy had passed on, the crew was left without much direction and were constantly asking themselves 'Oh, what would Walt do?' in a desperate plead to let the films prosper. It doesn't help that the 9 old men were either dying or retiring, and a whole new group of animators had to fill in the positions. However, what happened when the new generation took on the task of creating their first feature film on their own? Years of development hell, animators pitching in ideas only to be discarded, and the original 92 min length getting reduced to 80. That film is the 1985 flop called The Black Cauldron, a film so infamous that Disney themselves don't even want to acknowledge it even exists, and good thing too, because this film really left a stain on Disney's legacy.The biggest problem this film suffers from is the story. Now it could be because the writers were trying to condense a couple of books from The Chronicles of Prydain series into one movie, but even as a movie on its own, the story is just disjointed. The goal seems to be to find the black cauldron, and yet the film keeps on switching from the main hero having to rescue his pig that has psychic powers (OK), to him being captured by the villain and having to escape, to then searching for the cauldron and ending up with fairies, and THEN when he and his group finally find the cauldron....the villain takes it, and then the heroes make it out and escape the king's demise....yeah, not a very exciting story if I do say myself. Also, the film constantly shifts in tone from dark menacing action scenes to cutesy fantasy junk with the creature Gurgi and a bunch of fairies....ugh.Also, this is the first animated Disney film with no songs, and while it does help move the story along, it just leaves me bored without much amusement. As for the characters, most of them are either bland, annoying, or both. The main protagonist Taran wants to be a warrior so much that he ends up being the most irritating to witness, and even the situations he ends up in are either accidental or just pure luck that he even got himself saved in the first place. Princess Eilonwy is OK but her backstory is never brought up, Fflweddur Fflam is basically the same, and Gurgi....well despite one heroic act in the end, he offers nothing to the table and is more annoying than charming. It doesn't help that the film barely if at all develops the characters, as there's never a moment where we get to hear them have a meaningful conversation or even monologue about their pasts. The only character worth praising is the villain the Horned King, and that's only because of how menacing he is; though at the same time he barely does anything, and he's easily defeated in the end.....what a chump.To the film's credit, the animation is very well done. It's dark and gritty, the character animation is pretty solid, the effects look superb, and the backgrounds drip with influence from European fantasy books. Not to mention, this was the first Disney film to use computer effects, and the sporadic usage of it really adds in to the occasional intense scene. The only problem with the animation is that while it is well crafted, it looks less like Disney and more like if Hanna Barbara got a big budget (if you know what I mean), and the cute characters of Gurgi and the fairies don't really contrast well with the gritty environments. Also, the music score by Elmer Bernstein is quite solid, as it fits every scene with grace, whether it be the menacing music attributed by the Horned King or the whimsical enchanted melodies attributed by the main characters and the fairies. So is this the worst animated Disney film? No, I'll still take this over Chicken Little any day. But even with its quality animation, brisk music score and menacing at best villain, this is an otherwise forgettable feature that lacks excitement, character development, and even solid storytelling. It's a really good thing the crew at Disney pushed up their game with the likes of The Great Mouse Detective, The Little Mermaid, Beauty & the Beast, and more in the future, because as ambitious as this may have been, it overall left so much to be desired.
I only vote it 6 because of it gave us The Horned King, who really blew me away! I got the chills every time he spoke. I dare even say every time he moved. As I point out in the headline, the movie had a lot of potential, but is badly underdeveloped. The main characters are boring, some of them even annoying and the world is not explored even though fantasy movies should. And the exact plot feels pointless and not fully explained. But over the time it has made up a loyal following and I am kind of fifty-fifty. I can see its flaws, but I find some later Disney films worse than this one. The Black Cauldron is clearly a stand-out in the Disney catalog in several ways. For once it is nice to see a non-musical effort from Disney. I can't tell if the movie would have been better with musical numbers, that is up to you to decide. In my opinion the musical score makes up for that, even though the overall story didn't match the grandeur of it. The fact that it was the first Disney-movie to receive a PG-rating really shows. The scenes with The Horned King are piercingly dark and scary, especially in the time leading up to the majestic climax. This is probably Disney's first take on the horror genre. I would really like to see Disney do more graphic movies in the style of this to this day.The thing which really butchers this movie is the voicework of the main characters. They are the most bland and boring characters in the entire Disney catalog and they lead the movie!
 
John Hurt as the Horned King is the only one to make a solid performance. He is an awesome character, whose threatening appearance and thundering voice really cements that he is a powerful and mercyless tyrant you don't want to mess with! With that said I think that The Black Cauldron has some richly detailed and powerful animated scenes which still hold up to this day. The movie IS worth a watch, but you are warned about the backlashes of it.
This ones tough. It's not terrible, but the things it does wrong haunt the movie considerably. They were almost there, but I believe the writing was all over the place for this movie. I was starting to like the characters, until the introduced the next one and the next one and the next one! I never even fully got to enjoy all the characters. I needed more of what they had. Im a HUGE fan of how this film looks. It can be pretty at times and very atmospheric. The character designs are timeless too, it's just sad that their personalities don't match.
This movie is a rather low point in the history of Disney studios. The story revolves around a king (who looks like the Devil) who aspires to be the lord of all things, needing to get a cursed cauldron that has been hidden because of his potential evil power. And the only one who can possibly tell him where the cauldron is hidden is Taran, who has in his guard a sow with divinatory powers. Summarized, thus, its not difficult to understand the illogical confusion of this script, nor the terrible way the characters were conceived. The animations are also not very good, with a heavy, strong trace, low light and dark colors. Disney has always used us to exquisitely crafted, visually elegant and bright films. What happened here? Wasn't the theme of the film dark enough? We also have the problem of music. This film, against the habit of this renowned studio, has virtually no soundtrack. To conclude, I leave here a parental warning: this film, although it was intended for young people, is not suitable for impressionable children. At least that's my opinion. Some scenes are strong, sometimes impressive and scary.
For some reason my parents decided this would be a fun movie to let me watch when I was about 7 and home from school because I was sick. Between my fever and the evil skeleton dude I was thoroughly traumatized and had nightmares for weeks. Don't let your kids watch this sketchy movie. I literally made an account to review this because I hated it so much.
Seeing The Black Cauldron again in my 30's, and on DVD (albeit a blu-ray, or in full 70MM, would have been preferred), is a different experience than seeing it when I was 13 or 14 or whenever it was the movie first hit VHS (Disney didn't put it out when I was little, otherwise I would've seen it then). I recognize more references now - the little dog voiced by John Byner is clearly, whether it was from the book(s) or not, an homage/rip-off of Gollum (like the cuter/fluffier/Happy Meal version), and the feeling of Lord of the Rings permeates a lot here. So does the Dark Crystal. Perhaps a lot of fantasy stories feed from the same trough as Tolkien, or it goes back further (from what I've read these books are inspired by Welsh folktales or something like that), and so familiarity is inevitable. Watching it now though, as opposed to when I had less discerning taste, I wish this had a stronger story and was not cut off at the knees as an 80 minute tale (with credits).Maybe Katzenberg was right when he literally took the reels of film, which was unheard of at the time for an animated feature at Disney, and cut into it to remove however many minutes (from what I read it was between 10 and 15 minutes, as though this would make the film more palatable for audiences, though allegedly some of the cuts were to reduce it from a PG-13 or, as one might want to believe the 'street cred' of this, an R). What I have is what's before me, and The Black Cauldron is a style over substance piece of fantasy cinema. It's fitting that it's the first (and since, the last) time since Sleeping Beauty that was released on 70MM, the prestige film format, since it is a spectacle to behold and full of the kind of widescreen dark sorcery that a full widescreen gives a story like that or this.It's interesting for me to see the star rating I give this and then for Sleeping Beauty as they're almost the same, but it's about expectations: SB has one of the highest pedigrees in all of Disney, so to see it and be a little let down is where that comes from. With Black Cauldron, this is one of the most ambitious films of the 1980's, animated or otherwise. The filmmakers here (the directors previously had a small success with The Fox and the Hound, the last of the '9 Old Men' animated films at Disney) are shooting for something grander and more serious-minded, at least in some spirit, than their other films; it's the first time that there are no songs to be heard (though one was animated it was cut before release); there's animation of skeletons rising from the dead, the 'Cauldron Borne', that likely inspired scenes in Sam Raimi's Army of Darkness. It aims to have the scope of its spiritual influence of Lord of the Rings in its layouts and some of its character designs.But, at the end of the day, it's still a Walt Disney animated film, and it is in an uneasy area. Reading the history of how this got made is fascinating in that the connections to its production extend to Ralph Bakshi (who turned it down) and Don Bluth who was at Disney through some of its development but left the company before it really ramped up as its 25th production. By the time Black Cauldron hit theaters in the summer of 1985, it was three years after Bluth made his breakthrough with Secret of NIMH, which is a 'family' film but dark as hell and maintains its tone. The animators and story people and producers of Black Cauldron can't keep a consistent tone, and that's a tricky thing to manage. Hell, Disney just barely was able to maintain it on a razor's edge with Snow White, and here the problem is that the main characters (the young man on his quest, the princess of wherever who joins up with him midway through) are really dull and not given much personality.So mostly what you're left with are some charming animated scenes, but sparingly (the little fairy characters or whoever they are are nice to see, but are a little familiar too), and then a lot of (for kids) dark stuff involving the Horn King (voiced brilliantly by John Hurt) and a character like the talking dog. Its plot is so thin, and I'm not sure if this is due to the many years of it being in production, that it was in a sort of odd slump of the end of that age of Disney animation of those left from those later days of Disney, and right as the new group would come in (I saw Don Hahn in the credits as production manager, and he'd go on to be involved/produce/direct the 90s animated films). And yet, and it's a big yet, I love the LOOK of this film (with a couple of small reservations, i.e. some character animation seeming to be too pencil-drawn like it's still Sword in the Stone, but whatever).This has a ridiculous budget, a lot of imagination in its design, and the money seems to be mostly up there on the screen. The ambition to translate an (sort of, maybe not) unique world from those books to screen is commendable, and near the end the filmmakers do try to make some emotional stakes matter with one character. The Black Cauldron is a miss, but it's a wonderful miss, and I'm glad it got finished in some form, despite its script issues and hit or miss voicework.
I should state that I am a massive Prydain Chronicles fan. Naturally, when I heard there was a movie I of course had to check it out. After my dad finished reading me the books he rented the movie for me. My 7-year-old self knew that the movie wouldn't be exactly like the books due to time constraints and that it was only based on the first two books anyway, but the only similarity between this film and the books is the character's names. For one thing, there are tons of characters missing such as Coll and Gwydion, and the characters that do make it in are virtually unrecognizable. For example, Taran should have had black hair, both Eilonwy and Doli should have had red hair, and Fflewddur should have had blond hair. But these are all minor differences compared to some others. Dallben and Coll are also combined into one. If you read the books, Dallben is essentially Merlin in all but name while Coll is the pig keeper that Taran is apprenticed to. Also, the gwythaints are birds in the books but here are dragons for some reason. Lord Arawn isn't looking for the Black Cauldron but already has it. Gurgi is the same for the most part though I imagined him to be a bit taller. Also I found Creeper annoying, not like his powerfully imposing master. But how does it fare on its own? Well, there are definitely some good aspects. For one thing, the animation, while not the best I've seen, is very detailed, especially on the Horned King. Also, I like the fact that there are no songs. Nothing against musicals (there are some really good ones like Little Shop Of Horrors, Rocky Horror Picture Show, and Mary Poppins), but it feels like every other animated movie has musical numbers and quite frankly it gets kind of tiresome. But the best thing about the movie by far is the Horned King, who reminds me a bit of Cyvus Vail for some reason. While he may not be particularly action-oriented, he has a very imposing presence and a truly amazing voice (I must confess that until I went on IMDb I thought they just followed around some 90-year-old man with a mic). Conclusion: A surprisingly enjoyable and entertaining movie with a truly fascinating villain. Some fans of the books (which I am one of) might be disappointed but I found myself liking it.
I was (and still am) a big fan of the books this movie is based on. Maybe that's part of the reason why I was kind of unimpressed by it.It had some good moments - the skeletal warriors were done up in a pretty cool manner, and the scene where Hen Wen is captured is rather well-done. I thought the voice acting was pretty good, for Dallben and Taran in particular. I think one major drawback of the film is that it tries to take a story that feels like a medieval legend and turn it into a typical fairytale. The animation of Doli and the Fair Folk is a prime example of this - they're turned into cute little fairies, almost like non- blue Smurfs with wings, complete with adorable child fairies - rather than the more classic kind of fair folk as being more like elves, dwarfs, or more naturalistic beings like dryads and the like. Gurgi got similar treatment. It kept Eilonwy's fiery temperament, but only at the beginning - by the end, she was just another damsel in distress relying on Taran (who, in the books, is kind of an idiot and always being told so) to pull them out of trouble. The scene in the Marshes of Morva was particularly disappointing, turning three very interesting and creepy characters into cartoonish, silly witches who somehow know of the heroes plans even though the heroes never spoke to them about it. The replacement of Arawn with the Horned King, who's done up like some kind of demonic living skeleton, is also disappointing - I guess just having a really evil guy was not good enough? They also left out major characters and plot points.Other drawbacks include sometimes-shoddy animation, and many overly drawn-out 'adventure' scenes - chases around the evil castle, the wondrous but somehow boring discovery of magical fairy magicalness, the cauldron takes like 15 min or something to actually be destroyed, even them fleeing in a boat feels painfully slow.All in all, this movie has a few nice points and isn't super terrible, but it's also not particularly interesting.
The Black Cauldron will never go down as a classic in Disney's history. It was a complete commercial failure upon first release and it's somewhat easy to understand why - no musical numbers (just an underscore), no fairy tale romance, steps on the dark side an awful lot etc. Negatives: The protagonist is very irritating, the voice work for Taran, Eilonwey and Gurgi is grating and distracting. There's a few animation inconsistencies and the story-line does feel a little scattered and unfocused at times. Examples of this is when they encounter the witches and the fairies. The jump scares are quite overwhelming too - it makes any viewer anxious of what's going to happen next. Positivies: The villain is seriously one of Disney's best. The Horned King is haunting, mesmerizing, powerful and terrifying all at once. He's very impressive and I would class him in my top 10 Disney villains. The animation, though inconsistent, is very beautifully drawn at times and detailed (the design of the castle). I also love the scene where the Horned King summons the dead and they march together. It's very haunting to watch but also chilling in a satisfying way.Yes, The Black Cauldron is certainly not for everyone. And it's definitely not geared towards children. But none the less I enjoy it and it's one which I will considering re-watching soon.
Need to say, the only good thing about The Black Cauldron it's good quality of backgrounds animation, a quality that was not seen in the Disney studio since 'Sleeping Beauty' (1959). But honestly, I don't care if this film has become 'cult'. Remains as bad as ever.First, Taran is the most forgetabble protagonist in Disney history. Unlike other friendly boys as Mowgli (1967) or Arthur (1963), Taran is boring and has no charisma. All other characters also suffer from the same problem. The villain looks like a character who was taken from some cheap episode of Scooby-Doo. Fairies / gnomes (or what the hell are those things) sound like dull rip-offs of the Seven Dwarfs. Gurgi was created to be friendly and for we to care with him, but he's just an animated version of Jar Jar Binks we wish to see dead.As if things were not already worse enough, the script of this film is problematic. In the beginning, we have a nut with 'magical' powers (in my opinion the only sympathetic character in the movie), which seems to be the essential key to the climax of the film, but in half the movie to the end, she simply leaves to follow Taran and disappear in history. In my view, a serious flaw script. Add to the fact that history doesn't have any memorable moment, and we realized the disaster that The Black Cauldron is.
The Black Cauldron is given a bad name by even Disney itself for nearly destroying their animation studio (it was a major flop at the box office, comparable to their films in the 1940s) and for being a departure from the typical Disney format of either musical or just light-hearted joy (for the most part), but the truth is, it only recently got the warm cult reception it deserved back in 1985. Despite having some dull moments, the acting is top notch (especially John Hurt's Horned King), the horror scares, and there is enough action (including a shockingly crude joke that left my mouth wide open) to enjoy it as much as Lloyd Alexander's series. In fact, on Rotten Tomatoes it has a higher rating than Robin Hood or a few of Disney's early-mid 2000s films (55%), which I guess can be agreed with seeing how many critics didn't appreciate the new format, though its execution is not something to be glossed over. See it for yourself; I enjoyed it, but I can't guarantee, especially if you like older Disney films, that your rating will be just as or more favorable.
Now there are Disney fans who have grown up with this Disney film and this is 4 years before the start of the Disney renaissance era. Now this film is based on an old fairy tale book and it tells about this Black Cauldron which has the power to raise the dead and enslave the world. The only one who could use that kind of power was the Horned King. One boy, a princess and a little dog like creature were all that stood in his way. When the power of the Black Cauldron is reversed, the Horned King gets sucked into it along with his army of the dead. Then the boy, the princess and Gurgi lived happily ever after. Now one fact about this is that this is the first animated Disney film without any songs. Now this is an OK Disney film but the animation in this isn't all that great. I choose Frozen and the Lion King over this.
I found this to be an excellent film!The voice acting was brilliant.The music was brilliant.The main characters (good and evil) were brilliant.The action was brilliant.Capable of making you feel emotion - happy, sad, baleful, hilarity, you name it.And I do love the fact that this is one of Disney's darkest.It's my favorite Disney film ever.And if you're gonna tell me 'Read the Books!' don't bother. I tried the Books and they were horrible.
In the land of Prydain, Taran is the young assistant to Dallben. He doesn't understand why the pig Hen Wen is pampered. The evil Horned King is searching for the Black Cauldron which can create an invincible army of undead warriors. Hen Wen turns out to be an oracular pig who can reveal the location of the Black Cauldron. Dallben sends Taran away to hide with Hen Wen but the Horned King captures the pig. Taran is joined by pesky creature Gurgi in his rescue mission. Only he is captured and thrown into the dungeons where he joins Princess Eilonwy. They escape with bumbling bard Fflewddur Fflam.This is an old fashion Disney fantasy adventure with a little bit of CGI. The characters aren't that charismatic. They are out of a standard script with a young man, a feisty princess, a bumbling old fool and an animal sidekick. The pig is the one that keeps me scratching my head. I appreciate something unusual but it strikes me as very wrong. The old bard isn't as funny as he needs to be. I like Gurgi but I don't necessarily love him. This is fine but it is inferior to other Disney animated movies.
Version I saw: Amazon Instant Video streamActors: 6/10Plot/script: 5/10Photography/visual style: 5/10Music/score: 6/10Overall: 6/10The Black Cauldron has a reputation as the film about which Disney are faintly embarrassed, and would rather people didn't know about. The film has never had the publicity of others in the Disney stable, taking a long time to reach home video and DVD release. It would seem to have been a ruinously expensive box office flop, and investigations into the background reveal board-level personality clashes and fractious internal politics. I don't know about you, but that sounds intriguing to me.The film has problems, certainly. It is generally agreed to be considerably darker in tone than almost any other Disney film, and rather darker then studio execs were comfortable with. What first struck me, though, was not the tonal darkness but physical darkness. Throughout the early part, it was irritatingly difficult to even see what was happening on screen, even with brightness and contrast turned up to maximum. Thereafter, too, there is an odd discrepancy between the sumptuous, subtly shaded, almost canvas painting style backgrounds, and the simplistic design of the foreground characters, all thick lines and blocks of colour.There is a comparison to be drawn between The Black Cauldron and The Sword in the Stone. Apart from the medieavalish period setting, there is a distinct similarity in character design, and indeed the art style of the film in general. Thematically, though, it has far less in common with Disney in general than it does with Brian Froud's faerie illustrations and Lord of the Rings. In terms of the latter, some of the similarities are a bit too close to comfort. We have a Sauron-clone with Nazgul-clones, other incompetent lackeys (less unique, but still something in common) and a Gollum-clone. Admittedly, it could be that these were inserted by Disney based on Tolkien's popularity, and even if they are in Lloyd Alexander's source text, The Chronicles of Prydain, he would not be the first or the last to copy the seminal master of fantasy fiction.The writing has other problems. I found it short on the honed wit that brightens Disney pieces both before and since. Some bemoan the American committee style of writing, claiming that it leads to a certain soullessness, but at least a room full of brains can be counted on to deliver the zingers. Also, the main character Taran has very little about him to incline me to root for him. He is not strong, which is fairly standard, but neither is he clever, or brave, or even witty. His only real virtue seems to be luck, and even this abandons him at times in the narrative. This is especially a problem given how long he spends alone before companions are introduced.At least when other characters appear, they include a strong female character. Or do they? Certainly, Princess Eilonwy has personality, and a more engaging screen presence than Taran, but for the most part she seems content to tag along behind, and be a bit sassy. Still, that's a step up from Sleeping Beauty.So why 6 out of 10 and not lower? Two factors: Elmer Bernstein's excellent, strident orchestral score - exactly what one would expect from a cinematic legend of his pedigree - and the ending. I will try not to spoil it, but I found the deviation from the 'hero saves the day' convention very refreshing. The virtues displayed in obtaining victory are not the sort to be usually found in this kind of film. That papered over a lot of cracks for me.In some ways, I was a little disappointed that it was not more repellent, or otherwise inappropriate, which would have been an entertainment in itself. I suppose that will have to wait until I can seek out and watch 'Song of the South'...
The 80s is known for its dark films. And even Disney films of the time are no exception. Their art style is muted, using heavy shadows, stark contrasts and swaying away from the cartoony colours. Their story lines are rather adult and depressing. Well, in comparison at least. And the crowning achievement of this is none other than The Black Cauldron, the most peculiar of the Disney canon films.At the time Disney Animation Studios were not doing so well. In fact the company was seriously considering closing them down and focusing solely on theme parks and merchandise. This movie was originally meant to change that course, but it almost ended up being the sole thing to ruin the whole studio. It wanted to take Disney to a whole different direction, picking as its source material a dark fantasy novel and staying very faithful to its tone, earning the PG rating.And yes, before you ask, the pig is in the book as well. Disney didn't add that to give the movie a mascot. Gurgi is in the book as well. I'm never reading that book, no matter how much you'd pay me.So what went wrong? Well, what didn't. The Black Cauldron is a mess. It was a major flop upon its release, and I can definitely see why. It has since garnered a cult following, but the fact still remains that it simply isn't a Disney film. Families went in expecting a typical Disney experience with fairytale stories, kid friendly messages and all around merriment. Instead they were treated to a medieval fantasy story leaning heavily towards dark and horror.But, that could be forgiven. I actually somewhat like the idea in principle. Great heroics, one scary villain, myths and legends, sword and sorcery, all done by one of the greatest animation studios on Earth. What's not to like? How about the fact that the main character is an unlikable, lazy jerk, the side characters have no, you know, character, the plot wanders around worse than a drunken minstrel, the end twist is unimaginably disappointing, the MacGuffin pig is ludicrous, the villain while certainly scary has no charisma or presence beyond looking like the devil and as a whole I'm simply not feeling the epicness. It's clear Disney had never done anything like this, and had no idea how to adapt to a different kind of storytelling tone. A dark fantasy story differs greatly from fairy tales, though they both certainly utilize the same character tropes and source materials. But whereas fairy tales are about morals and simple lessons about good and evil, dark fantasy is more about the struggle against eternal darkness, the meaning of hope in the midst of despair and about guts and glory. I don't get that from The Black Cauldron.The movie has its upsides, definitely. It looks great, the villain is certainly the scariest Disney has ever done and about one third of the story is actually pretty captivating. But it has flaws, many many flaws. Not my personal favourite, but you should still check it out to see if it speaks to you.
The Black Cauldron is a Disney film that is not based on a well-known fairytale nor is it an original Disney story. Instead, it is based on a novel by Lloyd Alexander, a story about pig-keeper Taran who attempts to find his future-foretelling pig so that the evil Horned King would not capture and use her to pinpoint the whereabouts of the Black Cauldron. The Horned King plans to use the Black Cauldron to spread untold evil and power.The film has splendid hand-drawn animation and a catchy music score. Also, the plot has steady pacing to it with some adventurous and exciting action scenes, and the villainous Horned King is also one of the more scarier-looking Disney villains out there. However, I thought much of the characters lacked any development or chemistry, particular that of Taran. He wants to experience more in his life than just settling as a pig-keeper, but his purpose and goals were not fully developed throughout the rest of the film. He also didn't have any chemistry with the heroine, Princess Eilonwy, whose purpose in the movie was also very vague. She along with the wide range of characters including the flying trolls didn't contribute much to the plot; it was as if they were just placed in the movie for window dressing.But again, there are quite a few actions scenes that made the film at least somewhat exciting, and the sacrificing elements, lack of comedy, and dramatic characters made this a pretty dark and un-conventional Disney film. It's not one of my favorites, but is watchable at least once or twice.Grade C+
I watched this movie expecting a movie for children but a while in I had to notice that it is not at all suitable for children under the age of 6 or even 10. Other than Bambi for example the unsuitable content isn't limited to one scene but is pulled through half of the movie beginning with the body and ending with the movie. The beginning is cute and the characters are nice and funny but now and then you feel a bit freaked out by some situations. The tension is built up in the body and explodes in the final leaving young minds exposed to the spooky action terror drama set up at the end. If I had seen this movie at primary school age I'd be traumatized and I would have the permanent fear of losing someone. To put it in a nutshell for me it was a big mistake and I am desperately disappointed in Disney.
A notorious relic from Disney's back catalog that was censored and shunned internally for years due to its 'distressing' content. In a modern light, it's tough to see what all the fuss was about. A few marching skeletons? A bit of swordplay? It all seems so quaint now, with the benefit of hindsight on our side. Not that the film should be mentioned in the same breath as the studio's calling cards, of course. It's short, shallow and more than a little murky, with a distinct lack of Disney charm, but it still has a lot going for it. The animation, for instance, is superb - a great blend of photo-reference and vivid exaggeration that looks and feels like a Don Bluth classic (though Bluth himself, having departed six years prior, was uninvolved with the production). It also enjoys a much more loyal fantasy tone than many of Disney's efforts, sharing many themes (and maybe a few characters) with the then-neglected Lord of the Rings trilogy. Fascinating for many reasons, most of which occur behind the scenes, it's too narrow-sighted and streamlined to be taken all that seriously.
I was 13 years old when this movie came out. I recall watching this in the theater and enjoyed every bit of it! I still love this film today. I will agree with over reviewers that the film is dark and mature but it is a film that kids CAN watch - there is nothing vulgar within the film - but it does have an adult feel to the movie.If you liked Disney's 'Sword in the Stone', 'Fantasia' or 'Alice in Wonderland' then you might enjoy this film.Live-action films similar to The Black Cauldron: 'Eragon', 'The Brothers Grimm', 'The Sword and the Sorcerer', 'Maleficent' and 'Dragonslayer'.9/10
I am currently reading The Chronicles of Prydain and thinking that it would be good to see the movie as I read, I picked up this movie.What A SHOCK!!!! All of the other main characters with the exception of Hen Wen, Taran, Princess Eilonwy, Girgy and F. Flam are missing and this movie starts off with Taran's mentor as a bumbling fool, as a opposed to a serious scholar and goes downhill from there.It goes on with tons of added ridiculous characters, scenes and characterizations of some of the people in the book.Overall, it wanders so far away from the book and with so many laughable, non-existent occurrences it becomes unwatchable as you watch in horror this train wreck of a movie! Don't bother with this mess, listen to the unabridged recordings from Listening Library and embrace this CLASSIC series of novels!
I'm shocked by some of the ratings given to this movie. It is dark but so many of the great Disney classics are.I would have given this movie ten stars but it should of been longer to showcase the many amazing events that I cannot describe do to spoilers.If you like Ghibli I think you would enjoy this.I am writing this as I am watching the great mouse detective with my daughter. This movie Received a 9 star rating but is as dark as the black cauldron in my opinion. Although my 5 year old daughter disagrees. (But my 9 year old niece agrees.)I am writing as a father that has seen a lot of kids movies.
The Black Cauldron is a 1985 Disney movie based on a book and tells the tale about a boy named Taran who goes off to search for his pig who knows where the famous Black Cauldron is. So Taran goes off in search of his pig,where he meets a dog(well I dunno what this thing was suppose to be)called Gurgi who loves stealing stuff as he stole an apple of of Taran and Taran leaves Gurgi to find his pig only to meet the famous Horn King(who I swear is the most creepiest villains of all time)who sends him to the Dungeon. Meanwhile Taran meets the beautiful Princess Eilonwy and together the two escape alongside an old man called Fflewddur and try to save Taran's pig. But will the evil Horn King find The Black Cauldron,or will Taran and his new friends find it before the Horn King does?Overall the animation to its credit is nice and vivid. The voice cast is sorta bland to be honest especially the guy voicing Taran he sounds very boring and extremely bland. The whole story isn't that bad but GOD the charcther design for some of the charcthers are EXTREMELY creepy looking especially like I said before the design of the Horn King who looks like the Grimn Ripper. If you love your Tim Burton style movies well this is for you,as it reminds you of a film he would make.From the guy that gave you The Swan Princess,Thumbelina and Anastasia to name a few(Richard Rich who used to work for Disney but left after this movie was made),The Black Cauldron isn't a bad animated movie,not my favourite movie but I never seen this movie before so I decided to give it a shot and see whether I will like it or not.4/10
I remember this film being publicised as a trailer on certain Disney video tapes when I was about 10 and I remember how much I wanted to see it because I thought it would make a great change from the likes of 'Pocahontas' and 'Hercules.' Like 'Oliver and Company' (which is better but not quite as underrated as this one despite my original claim of Oliver being the most overlooked Disney film from the 80s), I also thought that it was originally released in the 90s but due to its obscurity, it was in fact released in 1985 and it was a box office failure. Unfortunately I didn't get to see 'The Black Cauldron' until I was 20 when I rented the DVD from my now-defunct local Blockbuster and I really quite enjoyed it then. Today I watched this for the first time in nearly seven years on Amazon Prime Instant Video and sadly I found my second viewing more underwhelming than my first viewing.The film's weak points include its somewhat slow pacing, the similarities between Dallben and Fflewddur Flam, the frog jumping from the cleavage of one of the witches being a bit too adult for this film, the dragons looking similar to Maleficent from 'Sleeping Beauty' in dragon form, the darker scenes lacking in detail, Eilownwy's line 'Use the sword' and Taran using it being similar to something out of a Star Wars film and, as the Nostalgia Critic said in his Disneycember review for this film, the more powerful/dramatic parts of Elmer Bernstein's score sounding similar to that from 'Ghostbusters,' which came out the year before this film did. As another reviewer has said, I also found the demise of the Horned King very dark albeit its impressive scanimation effects.On a more positive note, the strongest points of this film include its engaging if somewhat complicated story, the animation being smooth with effective lighting and cel-shading in parts in spite of its sketchy, linear look, the backgrounds being intricately detailed, some funny moments, parts of Bernstein's score sounding different from that in 'Ghostbusters' by making them sound medieval, more upbeat and majestic and most of the characters being diverse. Taran is talkative yet heroic, Eilonwy is one of Disney's most underrated princesses although helpful and gentle, the Horned King is sinister and reminds me of Skeletor from He-Man while Gurgi, Hen-Wen and the Fairfolk (small fairy-like creatures) are cute. I also found the small green goblin character comical and he made me consider him an early basis of Pain and Panic from 'Hercules.' Although I would like to have had the characters to speak in Welsh accents, their voice acting was full of clarity, especially from Grant Bardsley as Taran and Susan Sheridan (also the voice of Moomin in the 1990 2D-animated adaptation of Tove Jansson's books and Noddy from my childhood favourite stop-motion show 'Noddy's Adventures in Toyland') as Eilonwy. All in all, this may be the weakest feature-length Disney film I have reviewed to date here on IMDb but it was worth watching for its special effects, story and range of characters. 7.5/10.
I saw a short trailer for this cartoon from Walt Disney Pictures, and then I read the interesting trivia that Tim Burton worked as conceptual artist on this film before becoming a successful filmmaker, so I was definitely looking forward to watching it. Basically centuries ago in the land of Prydain, young man Taran (Grant Bardsley) one day dreams of becoming a great warrior, his enchanter master Dallben (Freddie Jones) tells him the secret of why he is assistant pig keeper, Hen Wen is an oracular pig, and holds the secret to the location of the Black Cauldron, which has the power to restore life to the dead, undead souls of course. The boy is forced to go on a journey to save Hen Wen when the pig is kidnapped by the evil skeletal lord The Horned King (John Hurt), who plans to use the power of the Black Cauldron to raise a large army of unstoppable undead slaves and soldiers to take over the world, and the fearsome lord has many minions to stop any intruders who try to get into the castle. Taran is joined in his quest by furry creature companion Gurgi (John Byner) who is small and pestering but reliable, comical middle-aged bard Fflewddur Fflam (Nigel Hawthorne) who tries to help with his poetry and harp playing occasionally, and of course the beautiful Princess Eilonwy (Susan Sheridan) who is his age and stubborn but has bravery. Taran finds a magical sword that helps him fight off the enemies, they encounter the small fairy-like beings called the Fair Folk who help them to locate where the Black Cauldron is, they find the cauldron in the clutches of three witches, Orddu (Eda Reiss Merin), Orgoch (Billie Hayes) and Orwen (Adele Malis-Morey) who will only trade it for the magical sword. They reveal before disappearing that the cauldron is indestructible, and the only way to break it's power it is if someone was to climb into it, but this will also kill whoever does it, none of the companions are willing to do this, so the young man feels hopeless and that the mission may have all been for nothing, and then the nasty soldiers interrupt. They seize the Black Cauldron and The Horned King uses it to raise his army who pour out into the world, the friends are released by Gurgi who jumps into the cauldron himself before Taran can do, the spell of the cauldron is broken and the army collapses, the cauldron goes out of control and eventually consumes and destroys the castle. In the end the three witches take back the now useless cauldron, Fflewddur convinces them to prove their abilities and allow a trade, the cauldron to revive Gurgi, they hand back the magical sword and Gurgi is alive and well, the young man, Eilonwy and the bard journey home together, and Dallben praises Taran as a hero. Also starring Arthur Malet as King Eidilleg, John Byner as Doli and John Huston as Narrator. The mostly British voice cast is well chosen, Bardsley as the young hero, Jones as an enchanter, Hawthorne as an eccentric entertainer, Hurt as a dark villain, Huston giving his narration, and especially Byner who sounds very similar to The Lord of the Ring's Sméagol but is really lovable. You could argue that this cartoon film is like any standard story full of swords and sorcery, and you can tell the animation is perhaps not the same high quality as previous and of course later pictures, but there is no denying that it is a really enjoyable tale for all ages, a fun animated adventure. Good!
The Black Cauldron is a far cry from most films of Disney's dark period (1961-1988) in terms of aesthetics. It is a beautiful film to look at with its dark fantasy world, appealing character designs, good score and lush backgrounds that remind me of the detailed backgrounds for Sleeping Beauty. And that is about all the good I can say about this film, which is a dreadfully boring narrative mess.The plot has little direction to begin with. There is no focus or clear goal to propel the story forward. None of the characters are interesting. Taran might be the weakest of Disney's animated leading men, having virtually no personality traits other than his cockiness and desire to be a great warrior. Love interest Princess Eilonwy is the same. Fflewddur is mildly entertaining comic relief, but aside from that he serves little purpose and could have been cut from the film with no consequence. Gurgi is to this film what Jar Jar Binks was to the Star Wars prequels. There are pathetic attempts at character development, but Taran and Gurgi's arcs are so weak that they leave little impact. The Horned King could have been an awesome villain, but he barely DOES anything, leaving most of his work to the ever annoying Creeper, who manages to liposuction all the coolness from the Horned King's scenes.I doubt I'll be watching this again anytime soon. It's looks are nice, but the story and characters are not emotionally resonant enough to make the whole product memorable. It's sad, because I love it when Disney delves into dark territory. Such a shame.
Disney's 'The Black Cauldron' is an uneven film, with an anticlimactic ending. The protagonist confronts the villain too early in the film to lend their conflict gravity. The villain's demise is ultimately unsatisfying and the film's resolution seems rushed. It is fair to say that the protagonist does go through a change in his view of the world, particularly what it means to be a hero, which lends the film merit. The tone mixes light-hearted Disney humor with the darker tones of the 'sword and sorcery' genre popular in the 1980s. The film is ultimately interesting, in large part due to the animation and mature themes imbued in the plot. I loved that Disney, prior to the Eisner era, was willing to explore a dark sword and sorcery fantasy concept in its animation. This movie is no fairy tale, like 'Cinderella' or 'Sleeping Beauty.' I doubt Walt would have green lit such a grim project, which has more in common with 'Lord of the Rings' than Dopey and Grumpy. A few reviewers have complained that 'The Black Cauldron' does not look or feel like a typical Disney animated movie; that's why I enjoy it!The cartoon is based on a book for older children and preteens written in the 1960s, which in turn was inspired by Welsh mythology. The aura of high fantasy pervades the animation, which lends it an element of 'coolness' that no doubt would appeal to older viewers than is the case for Disney animated films. The characters' facial appearances have the look typical of 1960s to mid-1980s Disney cartoon movies, so expect that. The Horned King and Creeper look pretty cool; while not particularly vile when compared to the likes of the Wicked Queen in 'Snow White' or Stromboli in 'Pinocchio,' the Horned King is one the scariest-looking Disney villains designed. His skull-face and antlered cloak evoke a sense of the sinister supernatural not present in much of the Disney fare. His army of undead soldiers, the 'Cauldron Born,' are especially creepy--again, preteens who feel too old for cute mice and who want an introduction to high fantasy may be drawn by the ghoulish villains. This film also has a bit more realistic violence than most Disney cartoons, which may also attract older kids: the protagonist's cheek actually *bleeds* after a dragon attack, which is uncharacteristic for a Disney character! Granted, the plot and themes are pretty sloppy compared to Peter Jackson's 'Lord of the Ring' films, but for any kid who wants a more 'mature' fantasy-themed Disney movie may enjoy what 'The Black Cauldron' has to offer. This film came out when high fantasy was en vogue, and films like 'The Dark Crystal,' 'Conan the Barbarian' and 'Willow' were popular. Sadly, this movie was a flop, and marked a dead end for Disney's attempts to animate dark high fantasy cartoons for an older audience. I sometimes think of what could have been: Disney might have released a slew of animated features based on adult fantasy novels, like 'Wheel of Time' or Herbert's 'Dune;' hell, they may have ended up producing the first 'R' rated Disney animated film, perhaps an adaptation of 'Game of Thrones.' Sadly, this film's ill-fated production precluded that possibility, and it would not be until 'The Lion King' and the Pixar movies that Disney would market its cartoons to children and adults simultaneously. While not a classic, 'The Black Cauldron' is worth a watch. Watch it to experience a truly unique Disney venture: its first foray into high fantasy.
As a huge Disney fan I decided to relive my childhood by watching all the animation films in sequence. I had never seen The Black Cauldron before and decided to watch. Initially, I felt it had a lot of similarities to The Sword In The Stone, a film I really enjoyed, however as I continued to watch, the plot and characters grew more and more ridiculous. Knowing the story behind the film would lead me to believe that Disney's biggest mistake was condensing the plot line to an extent were it lost heart and depth, it unfolds too quickly so that character relationships aren't properly developed (especially between the Princess and Taran), I also felt no connection to the protagonist. There was no rich sense of legend or mythology just an oracle pig and a floating ball, cheap, ineffective efforts. The 'Horned King' also didn't live up to the usual terrifying standards of a Disney Villain, using a skull-faced, cloaked figure is a far too obvious move, other more successful figures such as Maleficent in Sleeping Beauty, evokes fear through her malevolent aura, and ability to charm others as opposed to the blatant attempt in this film to create an evil character by giving them the face of a skull, the most stereotypical imagery of fear and death. I understand that this kind of animation was ground breaking at its time but I feel that this film was merely Disney testing the water, a blemish in a collection of timeless classics, completely lacking the fluidity of animations such as The Little Mermaid or Aristocats. This is the Disney that should never have been released, from the psychic pig to the irritating voice of the Princess and emotionless voice of Taran (the two did not blend), it does not possess the quality and depth of a Disney. This film had so much potential, they had a great story and could have created a dark, twisted tale that audiences connected with as much as the books, looking now at the success of the Lord Of The Rings movies, it just shows how badly Disney missed the mark in this poor attempt to reach out to teenage fantasy fanatics.
While others might single out the inconsistent animation, uninspired voice acting, or lack of classic Disney charm as the downfall of the Black Cauldron, I place my blame squarely on the pacing.At its core, the Black Cauldron is not a bad story. It's the classic monomyth, or Hero's Journey, which follows the young farmhand Taran on his quest to defeat the evil Horned King and destroy the Black Cauldron. Despite having a classic structure and reasonable premise, the story fails to click with the audience because it simply moves too fast. A key aspect of Taran's character, for example, is that he resents his life as a 'pig boy' and dreams of becoming a gallant knight. However, too little time is given to this dream for the audience to really sympathize with this aspect of the character. As a result, when Taran is forced to give up his magic sword (representing his dream of knighthood) for the good of the land, the potentially poignant moment falls flat.Similarly, the progression of Gurgi's character comes across as unnatural. He is supposedly a cowardly character, who fails to help his only true friends in the earlier acts, but eventually finds the strength to make the ultimate sacrifice. All well and good, but the whole series of events unravels too quickly to feel organic. Taran meets Gurgi, five minutes later Taran is leaving and Gurgi is too afraid to help his friend. Five minutes is not enough time for that relationship to solidify, especially because Taran hates Gurgi initially. Moreover, Gurgi's internal conflict with his cowardice is not given enough screen time to progress naturally.Even the pacing of the dialog is too fast. Characters practically talk over each other, in a hurry to hit the myriad of plot points between the opening narration and the closing credits, 80 minutes later. Even pausing for a beat between lines to show characters reacting to each other would have done miracles.All in all, this movie just had too much inertia. From the onset, characters are swept along by the unrelenting pace of the story, and never have an opportunity to build real relationships with each other or grow through introspection. It would have been a much better movie had they extended it beyond it's 80 minute constraint, using any extra time to add lulls to constant action.
Using the delightfully witty contemporary work of art for a film was not the mistake--How it was executed, was. Condensing the story beyond recognition ripped the heart out of it, leaving the film feeling...empty. I was a die hard fan of the Lloyd Alexander series as a kid. I am sure I was not the only child to write to Disney and beg them to animate it. When I was a mother myself, my dream came true, the making of The Black Cauldron was announced. I had high hopes, that were dashed upon watching the movie. I sat there stunned as the credits rolled, my only comment being, 'That's it?'.I had voraciously consumed the entire book series, yet never bothered to add this movie to my library. That was some serious disappointment. Without the sheer magic of the authors touch, the title alone was not enough to make this film a winner. Sadly,it felt more like a cheap knock-off.It is good to know that some production companies have learned since then to adhere to the approval of the author,such as the Harry Potter saga, bringing movie making to new heights. It is a shame they hadn't done it sooner. The written work of, The Black Cauldron, had such potential.
I recently spot into the Black Cauldron again after having seen it for the first and last time in the mid 80's. Two things to say: First, this would have been a Don Bluth Studios production, nobody would have never shouted at it. The Black Cauldron do not follow the Disney philosophy at all and we almost all agree on that point. This movie is dark on its overall at a point that we can barely think it is targeting a very young audience. Dark movies were certainly a trend in the 80's, 'The Dark Crystal' or 'Legend' are very good examples of how this ambiance was present and used into the movie industry at that period of time.Second, the movie is not bad at all! Try to see it from a different perspective. Animation is just a piece of art and at first glance we can easily guess this is a Disney. Characters are nicely drawn, the princess is very cute, Taran is a teenager full of energy and willing to do well....the villain is freaking frightening, probably the most scary Disney villain of all times! But it is true something is weak in this movie : the plot and roles of some of the characters. What is the one of Helowny for example? Apart bringing the required cute female presence in the story what does she add? Giving advice or supporting Taran in his quest? More drama would have been created if she was the one to jump into the Cauldron! Taran and Helowny both feel attraction for each other...the movie is dark enough to let the cute princess die bringing the dramatization level a notch up (and bring her back to life for the happy ending). Just an idea but this makes more sense to me than Gurki sacrifice.There are also a lot of discontinuity in the animation reflecting production issues this movie ran into (team changes). I have the feeling sometimes that pieces of the storyboard have been stitched together without a proper transition.On the overall we feel something is missing in the story to be convincing but we can't judge it like a total garbage. This is a classic animation movie which used also new features for an outstanding result on the screen at that time!It is a controverted one for sure but still a classic to have in your Disney collection!
I'm not a big fan of this movie but when I saw it, I didn't think it was too bad. It's definitely not a kid friendly movie, so it's not one I'll be buying for my future kids so they're probably going to miss this one too. But for what it is, it's passable. There have been far worse Disney films. But there have definitely been better ones. The main problem with the movie is that it's forgettable. I don't remember much about it at all. I can say that the villain is great!! He's actually very creepy. So if you love Disney villains, this movie's for you! Unfortunately, the characters, with the exception of Gurgi, who I actually thought was pretty cute and looked like a relative of Stitch's, are also quite forgettable. As a whole, I'd suggest watching it if you're a big Disney fan but don't expect it to blow you away.
I remember first seeing this title on the back covers of the few Disney classics series books by Mouse Works Books that I had owned when I was little/younger. And every time I went to rent a movie or some movies, I used to wonder why it still had yet to be released on VHS. But I'd find out, learn more and see why years later, after reading about the history/back-story behind it.So after it finally first had a VHS release over a decade later as part of the Masterpiece Collection series, I continued showing interest and curiosity in it, bought a copy (except in my case, it was the edition that was part of the Gold Collection) and saw what I just had to see. Having gotten to view it for myself at last, I enjoyed it, although I never read the original books in the Prydain Chronicles series (nor did I know this was even another, full-on, Disney adaptation at the time). And despite what some nay-sayers here may have typed about it, I believe in and can take it for what it is, regardless of whatever changes are made and differences there are from the books, because it wouldn't really be much of an adaptation nor could one truly call it that if it followed the original source as it is, that's how I look at and think of it except for maybe depending on what was changed, and to what degree.Anyway, I like how it stood out from most other, Disney animated films that were the norm at the time and it was groundbreaking in a sense, but at the cost of being a win-lose situation: On the one hand, it attracted some teen audiences as it was intended. But on the other hand, this decisive move caused it to tank at the box office, due to its somewhat controversial nature of the dark and violent content, which drove away parents and the very young/little kids, since that wasn't what they were expecting. That explained it all to me a lot and cleared things up for me as to the mystery behind the delay of its release on home media . Since I'm sure others have covered what it's about, I'll just say that one of my favorite parts is with the Fair Folk, who I love. It's no wonder The Black Cauldron has hardly ever been brought up by the studio/company and why it's one of the least referenced. It had more violent and graphic parts that didn't make the final cut. However, even though it was toned down somewhat, that apparently still wasn't enough nor satisfying for some. Having typed that, I'd recommend this for children as well as older viewers, solely if the parents believe that the youngsters are valiant and mature enough to handle those moments. There's nothing tedious or boring about TBC, as it's an action-packed fantasy/adventure/medieval times flick that should keep any of y'all on the edge of your seats. If it doesn't thrill y'all, then I'm sorry to say there must be something wrong if anybody can't feel it. And it's one of the few fantasies I ever got into trying. Not for anyone who is faint of heart.
I watched this movie for the first time today, and was very disappointed. I had been told that it was notoriously scary for a Disney movie, and I can see how children would find it frightening. However, this was not the problem I had with it. I found it to be extremely boring. The plot and characters were both generic and underdeveloped, and I found little suspense, humour, or really anything positive about it. I can possibly see young boys being amused with the action and pure evil of the Horned King, but unlike most Disney movies, there is little appeal for older viewers looking for a decent story.I'm not going to say this is an absolutely horrible movie - it's not. But it is very bland, and very forgettable. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.
For a Disney film, this is one of the first I've seen where the badguy isn't a comical human or something... it's an actual ghostly skull who we meet very quickly. The scenes with him start out very intense and scary (for a Disney movie mind you) and then start to get just more intense and more adventurous as the kids make their way through the castle and stuff.The idea of sacrifice is introduced and used in the movie. Not sure if that's the best thing to have considering that this is a Disney classic. However, the thing that gets sacrificed survives... but I found a flaw. I do believe the witches who made the trade said that only a HUMAN could sacrifice himself into it. While the thing which did wasn't human... yet it still stopped the curse in the end. -confused-But anyway, it was okay, and I have to give they some points for surprising me with the kiss near the end. Wasn't expecting it the way it was done.Anyway, I rate this 7/10.
I get tired of hearing people say that this is one of the worst Disney films ever. This film is energetic and action packed.Simply because the movie is on the bleak side it has gotten unjust criticism. Sure Disney was not at a high point during this time but this movie was better than many others made during the 80's. Oliver and Company is good and I like it more than this but that's because I have more memories from it than BC. The Great Mouse Detective was alright but not anywhere as remotely good as these two films.I haven't seen The Black Cauldron many times but it is a good Disney film. People who have a problem with the darkness of the film let me put it this way, 'Don't watch it and don't show it to your young children!' If you think they can handle it later on than go ahead but don't knock the movie just because it's not what you think Disney should be.The Black Cauldron is geared more towards a male audience but I am sure some girls may enjoy it as well.If you haven't seen The Black Cauldron and your a big Disney fan at least give it a shot.
This film is about a pig who apparently can help predict the future! Yep, and such an important porker is entrusted to a teen filled with hubris--but not much actual talent. And, if they are not successful, Skeletor will rule the world!!! The word 'nadir' is seldom used, but it's quite appropriate for this Disney film. It means the absolute lowest point--and in 1985 the Disney released this poor cartoon to almost universal disdain. After reportedly spending over a decade on the film, the end result was very poor for a full-length Disney film. And today, most would probably agree that it was their worst movie.So why is it a bad movie? Well, the most obvious is the poor animation which varies tremendously but is generally no better than a Saturday morning cartoon from the time. Second, the choice of stories was bizarre. I think Disney thought their old films were passé and tried using edgier material--but the story is really shallow and the characters completely uninteresting. In particular, Gurgi is sort of like a combination of Jar-Jar and Golem. As for the rest, they are one-dimensional and not particularly likable. The end result is dreadfully too dull--way too violent and confusing for kids and too dull and poorly made for adults. I can see why HUGE changes resulted at Disney as a result of this poor film.
This may not be the classic Disney that kids are used to, but it has a much deeper and complex plot then the usual movies. From the animation, to the sound of the characters, everything is different, but in a good way. It's nice to see a movie that really keeps you in your chair, not knowing what is going to happen, when will it happen, the years that the company has spent in it's making really paid off.Having seen all of the classic movies of Disney and this one seen last, i believe that it has more to give to the audiences then all of the others, more depth. Although it has been edited many many times, in fact i believe that it is the first movies to be edited my Disney, the dark part is still there, but not to scare the kids away, just to make them aware of the kind of evil lingers there. Overrall i believe that the movie is a masterpiece and its worth seeing, even if your not a kid anymore.
Of all Disney's failures, none are quite so infamous as The Black Cauldron. Based off material that was in the talks for decades, it was a property that was whispered about around the Disney studios for quite a few years before its conception (Ollie Johnston was an especially great fan of The Chonicles of Prydain). When Disney finally put the rights to use, they pumped oodles of cash into what they hoped would be the harbinger of a new age of Disney animation, one of darker, more mature storytelling. Not a single Nine Old Men put an ounce of work into this (okay...so Milt Kahl did some preliminary character designs...) and it seemed to be the consumation of the arrival of the new guard of Disney animators.What went wrong? Well the studio made the disastrous choice of handing off sections of the film to individual teams without giving them any interaction between each other, leading to some odd continuity and a total lack of a compelling throughline. Secondly, ambitions for a darker film were rather bipolar, leading to some odd inclusions like graphic gore and partial nudity and unfortunate omissions like a number of fascinating Tim Burton designs which were jettisoned for being too twisted. It doesn't help that the animation looks floaty and bland, some of the weakest in any Disney film up to then, and that heavy cuts under Michael Eisner removed said gore and nudity, only adding to the disconnected nature of this film. They made a few interesting choices, like reviving multi-planing (a very good idea) and using widescreen for the first time since Sleeping Beauty, but these don't make up for all the other blunders made by this film.The story is quite typical of Tolkien-inspired fantasy. An evil Sauron figure has returned to seek a magical item that will restore his power and send his armies across the land to conquer everything in existence. That item is a pig. I know, John Huston says he's seeking a cauldron, but he's actually trying to steal a magic pig from this film's Frodo Baggins, Taran, in order to find it. The one pig to rule them all. I'm not sure if that was in the book, and it's probably handled better in the book, but that's just a goofy sounding concept. Of course, our hero Taran, who's such a wimp that he's easily dispatched by the local goat (I know, that's what character development's for, right? right) loses the pig and has to go rescue him from the Horned King (who looks suspiciously like a demon from Night on Bald Mountain). Taran rescues the pig, but gets himself captured. With the help of a few fellow prisoners and a magic sword, he escapes, and it then becomes a quest to seek the Cauldron before the Horned King finds it.As animation, this is even more of a dark pit than The Fox and the Hound, which had a few real standout moments. There are no moments of excellence here, just floaty, weightless motion and an over-reliance on reaction shots that just looks awkward. Characters are thrown off-model in strange ways, and very little of the performances ring true. The backgrounds do have a nice atmosphere to them, but are also pretty smudgy. Design wise, very little stands out here, and I can't help but wish they'd incorporated things like Tim Burton's idea for flying hand monsters (not ripping off J.R. Tolkien enough?). The color design looks hollow and lacks any sort of warmth or emotion, as if drab colors were what was hip in the eighties (not that I blame them for thinking such). Lamentably, the best animation is Hendel Butoy and Andreas Deja's for Gurgie, a hapless character that they nevertheless lend some much needed life to. Otherwise, I can only point to The Secret of NIMH, made for less than half the money, and sigh at how the biggest animation studio in the world could have made a film that looked one-tenth as good. Not that Bluth hasn't made the mistake of failing to smell a bad concept, but even he must have gotten bad vibes from what Disney was about to do.One has to wonder how a studio with so much riding on this film could have gotten it so wrong. The failure very nearly drove Disney into folding its animation company, and so many potentially lucrative animators were driven into better careers elsewhere. It's a shame, but, thankfully, Disney did hold on to make a few more films. What's more, their very next project would be honest-to-god decent. It's a shame we didn't see a solid genre picture from this studio, though. We can only look at the disastrous final product and wonder what could have been.
i actually don't really love the eighties. don't hate it. but i'm pretty indifferent. it really wasn't much of a stand out decade aside from the possible notoriety of it's President.however, as far as Disney feature length, hand drawn animation goes, i have a real fond spot for the forgotten decade in their legacy. the eighties Disney films are very maligned and under-appreciated. and it's not very justified or fair. the eighties produced some of Disney's most memorable and endearing animated features. aside from 'The Little Mermaid', i've always thought the nineties animated features from Disney were somewhat over-rated. the nineties animated features always leave me a little cold and they feel over-blown and over-hyped and produced. the eighties animated films like 'Fox and the Hound', 'Great Mouse Dective', 'Oliver and Co.', had a sweeter, more endearing and modest quality that was lacking in the nineties. the nineties was cold. the eighties cartoon features are much cuter.'The Black Cauldron' is definitely the best from the eighties. what it lacks as an adaptation of Lloyd Alexander's 'Prydain' books (i miss the Raven on Taran's shoulder), it makes up for as a excellent Disney cartoon feature. the animation and styling are unmistakably Disney. and as with all Disney adaptations it owes more to Disney than the source it's adapted from. that's the way it should be. Disney films should be recognizable as Disney.even though there is much waxing about 'Cauldron' being too scary and intense for little kids and how it has no heart, most of that isn't all that valid. 'Cauldron' is a very 'G' rated experience and not 'PG'. there is no sex or swearing or even any real violence. it's a 'G'. it's also a very cute and adorable film. Lloyd Alexander's books were a little darker and not cute at all. Disney has managed to Disneyfy and cutesyfy the stories, but it all still works. Johnn Byner's Gurgi is a art drawing exercise in cuddly cuteness.'Cauldron' is one of Disney's most memorable of the later features. it boast startling hand drawn animation, handsome production design, and a wonderful film score by Elmer Bernstein.i know old school Disney. probably better than most. i spent most of my youth studying old school Disney and watching all the films. a lot of people can't always say that. i love 'The Black Cauldron' and think it's another one of those under-appreciated Disney gems.
The 25th animated Disney 'classic' isn't all that 'classic'. The first time I saw this a few years ago I enjoyed it more than after watching it again now. Now I am a few years older, which might have partially influenced that.The film was a Disney attempt in doing something different, perhaps such a radical change for its time that people weren't prepared, resulting in a spectacular failure at the box office and critically. If this movie had been made today, it probably would have been more appreciated. Time was kinder to it and attracted some loyal fans, but it still is one of the lesser known and appreciated animated Disney movies.Apparently this movie took 7 years to be made. A very long time, even for an animated film. It pioneered computer-generated imagery on Disney animated movies and also had the 'honor' of being the first animated Disney effort to be rated as PG because of its extreme darkness and violence.'The Black Cauldron' isn't such a bad movie, however it is not for everybody (including Disney's purists). And it's not one I would recommend for children because it isn't entirely appropriate for them. It is extremely dark and there is plenty of disturbing and scary content on this. The Horned King, for example, is the most sinister-looking Disney villain ever. He is an undead skeleton with demonic horns and eyes that glow red when he gets mad. And his voice is creepy. The Horned King can make more sensitive or nervous children wet their pants of fright. His appearance is repulsive.The Horned King's servant Creeper is gross and his henchmen are just as nauseating. They also have got 2 ferocious dragon-like creatures and the most vicious dogs ever (together with DeSoto and Roscoe from 'Oliver & Company').Horrible and disturbing things are seen in this film, including an army of skeletons coming to life. Things like this could make kids have horrible nightmares.The 3 witches are not only hideous but also irritating and grotesque.On the positive side, there are a few interesting characters. Princess Eilonwy and Gurgi were the best characters. Princess Eilonwy is very charming and very pretty and elegant and she's also got a pretty smile and a friendly personality. Gurgi, whatever that thing is, is cute and at the same hilarious and charming. His voice is so funny and cute and I like his manner of speech filled with rhymed pairs of words, especially 'crunchings and munchings'. Although a 'fraidy cat' during great part of the movie, he eventually becomes a hero.Taran is cool, but sometimes he overacts, such as one scene in particular which he is unfair towards Princess Eilonwy. Taran has a lot in common with 'Wart' from 'The Sword in the Stone': both are similar-looking and both spend their days daydreaming, anxious to become great warriors. Taran doesn't like to be an assistant pig keeper.Hen Wen is a cute little pig. Fflewddur Fflam isn't a very appealing character. He is an exaggerated broken down minstrel, so much that, whenever he lies, one of his harp's strings breaks. He is boring.The little fairies are likable. Doli was my favorite of the fairies thanks to his strong personality and short temper which made him so funny.Surprisingly, this film has no songs except for one by Fflewddur Fflam. Aside that, there is only some instrumental soundtrack.The film's got some amazing special effects. Besides, the drawing style (or artwork, whatever) is somewhat different in comparison to traditional Disney films of the time, almost Don Bluth-like style.6 is my final vote. Although, considering all the bad things I mentioned, I'd even give it a lower rating.
Without a doubt, The Black Cauldron has has got to be Disney's darkest movie yet. There are times that I didn't think I was even watching one. In addition to the movie's dark theme, there are no musical numbers. Of all the villains that the studio has put out, The Horned King has got to be the most menacing ever, thanks to the combined efforts of animator Andreas Deja (who also designed Lion King's Scar and Aladdin's Jafar) and John Hurt who provided his menacing voice.This is a movie that is without a doubt a forgotten gem. The animation is wonderful, and reminiscant to me of Snow White; no doubt the use of the multi-plane camera had a play in this.I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone looking for something out of the ordinary!
This is a grade A Disney animated film from the so-called Dark Ages of the studio and I feel that is an unfair label overall but is especially unfair when it comes to this film which is one of the studio's darkest and most enjoyable.The plot concerns would-be warrior Taran who sets on a quest to stop the evil Horned Kig (voiced magnificently by John Hurt) from getting his hands on a mysterious object which could unleash all supernatural hell on Earth. Along the way, he acquires a traveling company that includes a beautiful princess, a bumbling minstrel and a cute creature named Gurgi.The film has it all. The voice work is first rate with a cast including Nigel Hawthorne, John Byner, Phil Fondacaro, Arthur Malet, and Freddie Jones who all turn in good performances. Special mention needs to go to the narrator John Huston who's wondrous voice sets up the story quite well.The animation is lush, the effects are impressive and a real sense of adventure is aroused. My only complaint would probably be the pace which is a little sluggish and the standard happy ending does seem a little forced in.But those mere cracks are not enough to damage or destroy what is ultimately one of Disney's best. I certainly rank it in my top five and if you haven't seen it, check it out.
'The Black Cauldron' is a film loosely based on a book series known as 'The Chronicles of Prydain' by Lloyd Alexander about a boy who dreams of adventure, but when a magical pig named Hen Wen is captured, he has to set off on an adventure to find her and bring her back before the evil Horned King uses her to find the Black Cauldron, a weapon used to make dead soldiers come alive. I was about, I would have to say, maybe 8 years old when I first saw it. And I liked it a lot. It was a thrilling adventure. Now, I was not scared of it, but it does have moments that could be frightening to little kids. But that goes for a lot of Disney films. They all have an element of horror in them. It was not until 9th grade when I learned that it was a book, and it was not until I was in my teenage years that I started to read 'The Chronicles of Prydain.' Now I think that the film version of 'The Black Cauldron' is only sub-par. And here is why:This version is just the first two books, 'The Book of Three' and 'The Black Cauldron' rolled into one movie, with 'The Book of Three' dominating the story of 'The Black Cauldron.' In the film, Taran is an Assistant Pig-Keeper, but in the stories, he does not start out an Assistant Pig-Keeper. He starts off by making horseshoes. There is a character who is Taran's mentor named Dallben in the film version. But in the books, there are two characters, Dallben and Coll. What they did was have the characters of Dallben and Coll meshed as one. Dallben is an old enchanter. One might equate him to Gandalf or Merlin because of his wisdom and his appearance. Coll is the one with the bald crown. The Princess Eilonwy is an interesting character as well. In the books, she is a chatterbox. In the film, they cut the chatter down. But they keep her independent mind in the film, which is a good thing. Also, her bauble floats in the film. But it does not in the books, it only lights up at her command. The bard, Fflewddur Fflam, is not at all like he is in the books. In the film, they portray him as an old man, but in the books, he is quite young, and has spiky yellow hair. Gurgi is pretty much the same as he is in the books, except Taran meets him when Gurgi tries to strangle him. There are a ton of important characters left out of this film, and I was not pleased with that. One other part of the film that I did not care for was how they introduced the Fair Folk. They have them as fairies, but they are not like that at all. They are dwarfs, well, some of them are. Doli, the one who helps the companions to the place where the Black Cauldron resides, is not elderly. He is young as well. And the witches that live in the Marshes of Morva, Orddu, Orwen, and Orgoch, hardly match their descriptions in the stories. And the magic sword that Taran takes from the Horned King's castle, which is known as Dynrwyn, can only be handled by someone of noble worth, and Taran does not prove himself of that in 'The Book of Three,' nor in 'The Black Cauldron,' which only mentions Dyrnwyn once. The Horned King, now this was disappointing. In the film, they present him as an old emperor, but he is not like that at all. He is a warlord, and a young strong one at that. He does not speak at all in the stories, and he works for a higher power known as Arawn, Death-Lord of Annuvin, which they roll both Annuvin and Spiral Castle, the castle that the Horned King inhabits in the film, into one country. There is a character who works for the Horned King in the film called Creeper, which the makers of the cartoon created. Creeper does not exist in the books. There are tons of other changes made, but I will not list them, simply because although I do not care for 'The Black Cauldron,' I do not want to spoil it for you. So, I say this to you because if you read the books, then you might be disappointed by the film. But if you have not read them, or if you have and you will appreciate it anyway, then feel free to see it.
'The Black Cauldron' can be best described as Disney's most enigmatic film. Based on 'The Chronicles of Prydain' by Lloyd Alexander, this Disney animated fantasy attempted to adapt the first two books of the series ('The Book of Three' and 'The Black Cauldron') and make a grand film. The film has an infamous production history, as pre-production started as far back as 1971. The newly recruited Disney artists who were working on 'Robin Hood' and 'The Rescuers' (including Don Bluth) were hoping that this film would eventually become a Disney film that Walt would have never dreamed of, an epic fantasy. Unfortunately, the executives were very 'play it safe' at the time, so the project was put on hold. Finally, in 1980, full production began on the project and it was aiming to be a very dark fantasy film aimed at teenagers. At the time, anything with the Disney name on it was avoided by teens and adults, and thus Disney hid their names on the theatrical posters for PG-rated films like 'Tron', 'Tex' and 'Something Wicked this Way Comes'.The resulting film is a mess, but it's not a horrible film. In fact, the ambition alone makes it worth watching. Seeing Disney at least try to do a dark fantasy film is a miracle. The first problem is the muddled storyline. The film takes many liberties with the books and takes various sections of the first two books and tries to make a plot out of them to fit an 80-minute film.The story, in the land of Prydain is a Black Cauldron. Whoever gets the Cauldron can rule the world or destroy it. A young boy named Taran on the farm of Caer Dallben dreams of being a warrior and getting respect, rather than being an assistant pig keeper. What the young boy doesn't know is that the pig, Hen Wen, is psychic and can read visions. She knows the location of The Black Cauldron. Unfortunately, a terrifying warlord known as The Horned King knows about the pig and is searching for the cauldron. The Horned King plans to resurrect an army of dead soldiers and destroy everything in the land of Prydain. The enchanter Taran is working for, Dallben, tells Taran to take Hen Wen and hide her in a hidden cottage in the forest. Taran begins his journey into the forest with the pig, but he daydreams of becoming a warrior. The pig runs off and is captured by The Horned King's flying beasts, the Gwythaints. Taran goes into The Horned King's castle to rescue Hen Wen. All goes wrong, Hen Wen escapes and Taran is locked in the dungeon. There he meets Princess Eilonwy (stolen by the Horned King) and an old bard named Fflewddur Fflam. Together, with the small creature Gurgi, the team go on a quest to get The Black Cauldron before The Horned King finds it.While the plot sounds alright, the way its executed is a mess. The first half is great, but once Taran meets Eilonwy and Fflewddur, all seems to get muddled. All leads up to a very exciting climax. On the bright side, it has some very good animation and impressive background artwork (Although some may disagree). It is also the first Disney animated film to use computer generated imagery (not 'The Great Mouse Detective').One big flaw is the editing, but don't blame the makers of this film, blame Jeffrey Katzenberg. He saw the completed film and being inexperienced and thinking that you can 'edit' animated films, he edited out a lot of violent scenes that would've gotten the film a PG-13 or R rating. That was Disney's intention, to make a film for mature audiences and not having it being called 'just for kids'. Katzenberg made the film an even bigger mess. Hopefully some day we can see the uncut version.Unfortunately, the film did not do very well. It grossed $21 million against a record $25 million budget. Because of this, Disney did not theatrically re-release the film in the U.S. (There was a re-release in Europe in 1990 under the title 'Taran and the Magic Cauldron').Why did it flop? Maybe because the film's dark content? Maybe because the film received mixed reviews? Or maybe it was because the film lacked heart? Anyway, they finally released it on home video in 1998 after fans asked for it and it sold $100 million in video sales, so it has a bit of a following.It's definitely worth a watch. You may love it or you may hate it. Not a bad film, it just could've been something grand, something to save animation from the state it was in at the time. But the good animation, the exciting action sequences and the score by Elmer Bernstein make up for the flaws.8.8 out of 10.
I don't even understand what the film-makers were *trying* to do with this. As an adaptation of Lloyd Alexander's excellent series, it's almost unrecognizable. When Taran draws a generic 'magic sword' in Spiral Castle, when Gurgi sacrifices himself to destroy the Black Cauldron, when the three witches perform a resurrection spell, when Eilonwy is reduced to weak love interest and Fflewddur to comic relief, it's clear that the writers have missed the point entirely. Nor is it worthwhile considered simply as a film in its own right; it's Disney at its most self-parodying, filled with tired shtick and cheap emotional manipulation. The animation and music are dull and only a couple of the voice actors provide bright spots. Avoid.
A Dark version of Disney. They twisted a great work of LLoyd Alexanders and turned it into something even more evil than the books. Movie is actually a fuse of the Book of three and the black cauldron book....... One of the worst Disney box movies of all time.The Black Cauldron represented the Disney studio's attempt to reach out to teenage fans of fantasy novels, a popular genre at the time. However, the gamble proved unsuccessful as the film failed at the box-office. Some critics blamed the film's lack of appeal on the dark nature of the book (though some gave it a good review; Roger Ebert's review at the time of the film's release was mostly positive). (From Wikipedia) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Black_Cauldron_(film)#Plot
This is definitely one of the weakest Disney movies, and it certainly didn't help that the Disney studios were on a low. It is worse than oliver and Company, which I liked. I liked this one too, but it is not for children. I haven't read the books, but even without reading them, you could tell the voice actors weren't given much to work with. The characters are likable but badly underdeveloped, especially Taran, who I thought was a little bland. There were some truly splendid animated sequences, but most of them were inside the castle, like the death of the Horned King(highlight of the film for me), as well as Morva, and the Fairy Kingdom. Creeper and Gurgi were a little annoying at first, but I definitely preferred Gurgi. The music by Elmer Bernstein was very dramatic, such a shame because the story didn't match that. However, on a positive note, the most impressive elements of the movie, were the scene of the cauldron destroying the Horned King, the wonderful sombre intonation of John Huston in the prologue and a sinister voice-over by John Hurt as the Horned King(who was really frightening). Speaking of John Hurt, I have an issue with Roger Ebert rating this film over The Elephant Man(Hurt's best film). In my opinion The elephant Man is much better than this, which is a 6.5/10 from me. Bethany Cox
I realise there are many who say that 'The Black Cauldron' is by far Disney's worst cartoon. I disagree.Although i have nothing per say against light princess stories or the animal fun Disney usually goes in for: The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, The Fox and the Hound, The Jungle Book, Cinderella... etc. I say it's always nice to have a change, something for the less stereo typical, darker children to enjoy.I didn't know i was one of these children until i saw 'The black cauldron'. which quickly became my favourite Disney film.I'm sure I am not the only one who has watched many Disney films and not been fully satisfied, ending it and thinking 'yes but that wouldn't really happen would it' thought maybe it's a bit to happy. Thought that maybe we need a better villain.The first time i saw 'The Jungle Book' i was fine with Shear Carn but Ca the snake terrified me. You're never afraid of the people you're supposed to be afraid of in these films.In Lady and the Tramp you're supposed to be scared of the Rat and creatures like that but i was too busy being completely freaked by the cats. In Beauty and the Beast it wasn't Gaston i was afraid of or the beast but that machine her father had. In The Little Mermaid it wasn't Ursula but those 'unfortunate soul' things. In Snow White it wasn't the witch it was the trees. The same applied for all of these Disney films except the Black Cauldron.The villain is what makes this film. From the moment the film opens you see this terrifying black pot with this deep dark voice over which is then contrasted with the introduction of Taren, the central character and his pig, Hen.It turns out the horned king is searching for the black cauldron which will give him the power to raise an army from the dead and to find the black cauldron the king will come looking for Hen, a pig with strange divining powers so Taren (who dreams of adventure and the like) must take Hen to the cottage on the other side of the wood and keep her hidden there.On the way however Hen is stolen by some terrifying flying dragon monster things and Taren had to follow them to the horned kings castle and get hen back.The Horned King is as frightening as for once he should be and voiced by the immensely talented John Hurt. He is the most affective animated villain ever on screen and i say that with confidence. However to lighten the mood a little he is accompanied by a delightful but much abused little green goblin who is great fun as well as sweet and quite charming even if he is a little mischievous.Also along the way Taren comes across a sweet but strong minded princess, a highly dishonest but charming bard and the most irritating character ever put on screen. I can't remember his name but it's irritating. He is the one thing i am afraid the brings down the entire film in Disney's lame attempt to introduce comedy into the mix.The film closes with a dramatic and thrilling climax and does not disappoint. It was a welcome relief and change from every other Disney movie and a great success as far as i'm concerned. you might not like it but i always will.the Animation is poor and so is the script but the story and the characters shine though and will remain one of my favourite cartoons of all time whatever anyone else says about it.
Even if you don't know the books, this movie's plot delivers an incomplete and choppy story with characters that seem out of place. The character designers leaned heavily on prior Disney features for inspiration: cross Jock and Peg in Lady and the Tramp to get Gurgi, imagine the hill-billy relatives of Flora, Fauna, and Meriwether to get the fair folk, cross Peter Pan and Arthur from Sword in the Stone to get Taran, and imagine a younger version of Sleeping Beauty to get Eilonwy.Some moments work as intended, but even when individual scenes work, they fail to form a coherent storyline. The movie also fails to adequately imagine character interactions and circumstance: We're left to wonder why The Horned King would kidnap Eilonwy and then give her free reign of the castle, where Flewder Flam came from and why does he belong in the story, and even why does Gurgi care enough to climb into the Cauldron knowing it will kill him? Strictly as a movie, The Black Cauldron does not work as well as we expect from Disney, and would benefit from being a bit longer and better thought out.If you have read the books by Lloyd Alexander, you will be even more disappointed. Alexander's characters all had language patterns that defined them, Disney almost completely omits these, with only a brief nod to 'munchings and crunchings.' Disney also eliminated the moral guideposts of the story.In the books, the destruction of the cauldron hinges on redemption: we know Elidar to be strong and talented, but driven by ambition that has turned him to evil action. When he fights his way to the cauldron and climbs in, his sacrifice forms an appropriate counter to the evil he has done. In the movie, Gurgi takes the role of Elidar, climbing into the cauldron to destroy its power. This act becomes a pathetic act of self-destruction. In Gurgi's own words, 'Gurgi has no friends; Gurgi will do it'. There is no battle to reach the cauldron, and there is no redemption in his action.This is just one example of how the movie's attempt to condense and simplify abandons the drama that makes the books powerful. Readers of the Chronicles of Prydain will likely find many more. They will also find a gaping hole where characters are missing or only partially formed: Dallben has none of his mystery and power (apparently abandoned when Disney removed his beard), and gaping holes form in the story where we expect Achren, Arawn, Gwydeon, Coll, Smoit, the Huntsmen, and Adeon. Disney has used the story of Prydain as a crutch to prop up a crippled story line, rather than as the foundation of a magnificent new tower of fantasy. If you know the books, reread them instead of watching The Black Cauldron. The movie will disappoint.
The problem with THE BLACK CAULDRON is not that it's dark. It's that it tries to do 'dark' and doesn't do it well. THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME managed to be more dark and evocative than this.From what I can tell, CAULDRON wouldn't have been better with the edited-out stuff left in, either. Some of that material would have just contrasted much too jarringly with the movie's inescapable, if diluted, 'Disney-ness.' (Having learned about some of said edited-out material, I'm amazed at the tone-deafness of the people responsible. They may have thought they were pushing the envelope, but even had this movie been better it was not the place for those kinds of attempts.)The best part of this movie is that it doesn't have any songs. But some choices regarding characters just don't make sense. What is the 'Horned King' supposed to be? Wouldn't he have been better as a deranged, power-hungry human in a creepy costume (which, as I've recently learned, is exactly what he was in the source book) than as some kind of unexplained skeleton-being? Gurgi is not only annoying and difficult to understand, but he seems entirely out of place in the 'ancient' setting. The minstrel guy serves NO plot function whatsoever -- I hate Disney characters like that, even if they're funny!The plot, whatever its faults (including the fact that there's no background or context provided for most of it), was reasonably involving. And I was pretty much OK with it until it got to the end, and Gurgi was miraculously brought back to life. Sorry, but that put the nail in the plot's coffin as far as I was concerned.
I really disagree that this film is in the 'Top Worst 5' list on Keyframe. I was shocked and surprised by the negative reviews, because I thought this film was AWESOME! And also I have read the 'Chronicles of Prydain' book series too from which serve as the film's source material; well actually the second book in the series.I love Princess Eilonwy, she is beautiful, cute as button and a brave young woman; her kiss with Taran at the end knocked me for a loop. (*sigh*) You know, I thought she and Taran do make a cute couple in my books. Also, I love Gurgi too. He is SO cute and talks funny too. So anyway, this film is an awesome Disney fantasy.
The DVD cost me £2 which was a bargain until I wasted 80 minutes of my life watching the black cauldron.I couldn't connect with this story. The characters are introduced but not explored, not like a typical Disney film. Its hard enough remembering their poorly created names let alone feel anything for them.The poorly conceived villain wants to wipe out all the living in his land.Usually this would be an admirable goal for your typical maniac villain but in this case it is laughable: all but a handful of the living in this land are already under his control (either in his dungeon or they are his soldiers).The only things that aren't are an old guy (named whatever) who lives with a boy (the hero) and a prophetic piglet (Hen-Wen) and their pitiful farmyard animals. So basically the evil king is going to raise an army of the undead to wipe out a small farm oh and how could I forget the only other living thing that is the nauseating 'cuddly' but cleptomaniac dog looking doowacky. The clepto dies, and in the final scene, his cuddly-wuddly body is returned to our hero and you think for just a moment this film might rescue itself if they live the thief dead, but no, they bring him back to life and remembering this means I am going to reduce the vote from 3 to 2 out of 10. The one good thing that I hope came from this film is Disney learned a few lessons in story-writing (which I thought that would have had down by the mid-80s).
This was the first new Disney film I saw as a kid. I was 6 when it was released and absolutely loved it. I still love it to this day. I wasn't at all scared by it so why it got a bashing for being considered too dark I'll never know. I love it because it is so different compared to the other movies Disney did at that time, and the animation is lovely. The characters are wonderful too. I had this obsession with the film when I was a kid, and bought the story book with clips from the film and everything (which is sadly lost now) so it had a real impact on me. I think that is partly the reason I love it so now. The nostalgia of the old Disney. Compare Cauldron to something like 'Home on the Range' and Cauldron really becomes a classic. They don't make 'em like that anymore. I think The Black Cauldron is a little gem. Nothing for Disney to be ashamed of.
Please. Spare me the lecture about 'The Little Mermaid' or 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.' Face it: they were dull! They had no redeeming value! Why is it that Disney's best titles-- 'Robin Hood' (1973) and 'Cauldron' are always overlooked? So, yes, the movie butchered Lloyd Alexander's series. So what? The world of books is completely different from the world of movies. If you can't take that, I'm truly sorry. Go read a book. 'The Black Cauldron' is the fascinating, stunning tale of a brave but foolish boy, a precognitive pig, and an evil Horned King who will stop at nothing to become immortal.I always include this with my 'Best of '80s Fantasy' marathons-- 'Ladyhawke,' 'Willow,' 'Krull,' and so forth, with no 'Excalibur' or 'The Neverending Story'-- because it was such an amazing, imaginative movie that it deserves recognition as such. From the clever Witches of Morva scene to Gurgi's laments about munchings and crunchings, 'The Black Cauldron' is why, after all these years, we still put up with Disney.
From time to time, Disney deviates from the typical formula, and generates something new...something fresh. Atlantis was one such movie, without the first usual musical-ish feeling or element. It was a grand movie, with a beautiful feeling about it. This is another of those deviations, but without the same final effect.Something was lost in this translation, as it lacks much of the same old Disney feeling we've come to expect. It was prevalent throughout the atmosphere, story, and execution, but what struck me most of all was the lousy and often cheap-looking animation. The animation found herein was more what one might expect to find in a Disney animated sequel in that the backgrounds were haphazardly done, the principals were cheaply done, and the effects bore no concern or care in their design or presentation.The story, however is still quite compelling, while the elements of the story are darker than usual Disney fare. This was far darker than most Disney animated features, and may not be suitable for younger children, as the atmosphere is rather dark and foreboding.All this said, because of the story itself, this is not only in my collection, it stands as one of my Disney favorites. I AM a horror fan, after all.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend :.
'The Black Cauldron' is an enchanting as well as an exciting story about courage, self-sacrifice and love. With beautiful animation, a superb voice cast, and riveting story, this movie will keep your eyes glued to the screen from start to finish.*MILD Spoilers* Set in a land called Prydain, young and adventure hungry Taran finds himself becoming involved in a plot to stop the wicked Horned King from finding the legendary Black Cauldron - a dangerous pot that can create an army of the undead. Teaming up with a lovely young princess, a bumbling bard, and a pesky critter named Gurgi, Taran quickly decides to take up the quest to save all of Prydain, and get to the Cauldron before the Horned King does... *Spoilers end here*I won't give it all away for you though. Get it and see it for yourself.It's definitely not a movie for little tykes, but if you have older kids or teens who like fantasy, they'll most likely enjoy it... and I'm sure anyone will, if they give it a chance.
i thought it was a good move-if you've never read the book!!!Disney has gone over the edge with this. i had seen the movie when i was little, and thought it was a good movie. and it is if you've never read the book. just a little while ago i heard about the books and decided i would read them. i was blown away by the books! they were so good. personally , i'm a big lotr movie fan, i liked them more the the lotr books.the lotr books were just a little to detailed for me, so this came in first.the animation was good, but the story was heartbreaking.they start off with a bad start, this little fat lively bald guy, who at first sight i thought 'this must be coll' which i thought they didn't do to bad. THEN I HEAR IT'S DALLBEN!!! i was mortified, dallben was supposed to be an old enchanter who hardly ever got out of his seat. and the way henwen gave the prophicies was all wrong. but anyway they continued the bad going by cutting out lord gwydion. what the heck? so then it turns out that the enchantress's, ordu,orwen and ogroch, already have the black cauldron.so then eilyonwi comes in and one is some little girl who doesn't talk near enough. and the whole thing with the sword, it just wasn't right.anyway in conclusion i could not stand it. the books deserve so much more credit than they get. read the books if you think this movie is good.
*May Contain UnHarmful Spoilers*'Hidden by darkness. Guarded by witches. Discovered by a boy. Stolen by a king. Whoever owns it will rule the world. Or destroy it.' The Black Cauldron was a well-attempted film full of excellent potential. Unfortunately, this film was a bomb, and it was disappointing to watch. The movie took seven years to make, that's a long time, even for animation. I can see every dollar was put into every frame, and I can tell that they believed money was not a problem. Disney certainly had the money, but they surely didn't want to throw it all away. The success was very little, and it wasn't that it was horrible horribly, it was a little too dark and it just missed something.This was Disney's first animated PG movie, okay, it was violent, but not much more frightening than other Disney films in my opinion. The Great Mouse Detective was just as creepy and Beauty and the Beast was just a scary. But that's of little importance because they were much better films. The thing about The Black Cauldron is that it was shown to be dark and scary, but I think they could've have given the Horned King (John Hurt) a better portrayal evil.I enjoyed the characters, mostly. Disney has always had its little annoying side characters to bring the comic relief, but as far as Gurgi Taran (Grant Bardsley) is a young man who dreams of one day becoming a great warrior. All he has learned is to be the best pig keeper assistant, what a sad life. Taran lives his with uncle Dallben (Freddie Jones) at a little farm along with their precious piggy, named Hen Wen. Hen Wen is a special pig for he has powers to see the future. Ounce the Horned King of the dead discovers of Hen Wen's powers he immediately summons his soldiers from the underworld to capture the bacon. The Horned King desires the dark Black Cauldron that can conjure an army of infinite numbers. Taran gets to fulfill his life long dream, to be sent on a grand expedition full of danger and a promise to keep the pig away from evils hands. Daydreaming, Taran inevitable loses Hen Wen and is in fear of breaking his promise. He calls out for him, but instead of a pig he finds a, ummm, something named Gurgi (John Byner). Gurgi is a very annoying furry creature that plays the best friend act on Taran to get his juicy apple. He gets the apple, but loses his new best friend.Hen Wen was captured and brought to the dark whereabouts of the Horned King. Taran sneaks in to get his pig, but ends up captured and thrown into the dungeon. I would like to point out that the attitude of the Horned King was unrealistic. They call him the definition of evil and the master of sin, yet he shows signs of kindness of sparing Taran's life to be locked up instead, and will only strangle his little troll sidekick for failure. For a Disney film this is acceptable, but I just don't like exaggerating a character. Anyway, when Taran is locked up he meets a young princess, named Eilonwy (Susan Sheridan), who has been captured before him because it was thought that her strange floating ball of light could tell the future. Pointlessly to say, I like the young teenage relationship, while their hormones is blooming and discovering attractiveness to the opposite sex. So they both argue time to time, but they like each other overall.One thing I didn't understand was the significance of the magical sword of the long dead king that Taran finds. An ancient sword with magic to cut through metal, and it fights with a mind of its own. I would have thought that it would have more of a purpose to the plot other than it making Taran feel like a warrior, and a bargain trade for the cauldron. He really loved that sword, and felt invincible wielding it.I'll leave the story at that, and let you decide the rest. The Black Cauldron was impressive for its looks, but disappointing for most everything else. The only characters that I cared for were Taran and Eilonwy, and the Horned King was pretty cool. Everybody else was just annoying and pointless. I've pointed out Gurgi, and there's Fflewddur Fflam (Nigel Hawthorne), weird name I know, who tags along with his very expressionist harp. I could see the film going on without these two characters, though on the other hand without having Gurgi Though there is one thing that I find highly interesting, and that's all the sh*t this movie went through. Just count the dollars and the days this movie had in the process. It was expensive and it took several years to accomplish. However, the numbers were low for the movies prophet and it took more than a decade to come to video. Fascinating really, and despite this film being rated PG it went through some major editing. The new chairman of Disney, Jeffrey Katzenberg, had ordered the filmmakers to redo and edit the more intense and dark themes that would draw away a family audience. Here's the link if interested.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Black_Cauldron_%28film%29 I really truly wanted to like this film, really. This film isn't horrible, and I would watch it again if I get the chance. Though I have to give this one the cold slip for a project failed.**/**** Stars The Black Cauldron (1985): Rated PG for some violent images
This is not your average Disney movie, which is full of happy characters and a long line of happy-go-lucky songs. For many years, Disney disowned this movie because it wasn't a box-office hit and was released on VHS/DVD only twice. One of few PG-rated Disney movies, this one contains no music, and truly scary characters (age-depending, of course). Although characters like the Horned King and his undead army, may frighten younger viewers, the movie's dark side may be appreciated by some children (we forget that they too may appreciate the darker sides of things).The story is slow-moving for a Disney movie, but involving nonetheless. Although it is not the best movie, it is different from their usual gooey-mess of a film, while still having a fantasy-theme and does not seem like a Disney movie whatsoever (in a good way!).
Plot in a nutshell: Taran is an assistant pig keeper for the old wizard Dallben in the land of Prydain who dreams of being a great heroic leader of men. Then trouble starts brewing when the Evil Horned King embarks on a dark quest to unleash the power of the Black Cauldron and attempts to kidnap Taran's pig Hen Wen, who happens to be an Oracular Pig. When Taran is given the task of taking the pig to safety, he loses her to the Horned King's forces and must embark on a quest to reclaim her, which introduces him to the hyper-talkative Princess Eilonwy, the slightly untruthful bard Flewder Flam, and the goofy little man-dog creature Gurgi, and then they in turn must embark on a quest to find the Black Cauldron itself and destroy it somehow.Well meaning if unsuccessful adaptation of the first two books in Lloyd Alexander's 'The Chronicles of Prydain' book series, combining the plots of the first two books, #1 'The Book of 3' and #2 'The Black Cauldron', with the second book's plot taking center stage primarily. Many important characters from the books such as Prince Gwydion, Coll, Adaon, Morgant, and Elydir among others were lost in the translation from book to film. It's not un-entertaining, just uneven. Good animation and good music by Elmer Bernstein helps.
Always curious about The Black Cauldron, I finally got around to it after seeing a DVD at the rental store. Despite a lot of grating elements, I ended up liking it overall.The movie starts off on the wrong foot. The voices come across as recorded at low fidelity, and when combined with the sometimes hard-to-understand British accents, can be somewhat off-putting. Issues with voice and script become even more pronounced with characters such as Gurgi and his Gollum-esquire speech patterns. Indeed, the second time I watched the DVD I threw the English subtitles on, and not just for Gurgi.Other problems with voicing include an exceedingly dull lead actor for Taran (he simply can't emote), and an overly chirpy female lead for Eilonwy.Most other elements of the film proved passable if predictable in the Disney mold of plot, hero design, sidekicks, etc. Where it branches out for the better is in avoiding any and all musical interludes and along the way offering some scenarios and graphic effects that are more mature than most other Disney animated feature films (though later in the '90s the likes of The Lion King, Hunchback, and Tarzan would also tangle with mature themes).Animation is also spectacularly mixed in quality, an odd distinction among Disney films but a distinction nonetheless. Usually solid, there are high points such as external shots of a dark castle or a visceral chase sequence. There are also low points such as unnatural shifts in hair color that overemphasize different environments, or obvious spots where animation was rushed (a rock slide sequence).Yet for all these lows and highs, as an animation fan I ended up siding with the high points. Many sequences are inviting to re-watch, even if the entirety of the movie may not be. For all the talk of failure that continues to surround this movie, one can see in the film itself elements of a more mature Disney that could have been extremely promising with a more seasoned batch of animators and a world less hostile to PG animated fare.
This is a great movie sure it has nothing to do with the book, but I think Disney was trying to combine the full 5 book series into one movie. I do wait for the day they make a true Prydain Chronicles series like Harry Potter and show all books Like the Prydain Chronicles 'Book of Three', Prydain Chronicles 'The Black Cauldron' and so on. back to the movie - The animation in the film is some of the best ever produced to date by any animation crew. It's down fall was the time it was released and the editing they did to the film before the release, and the fact - they took small sections from the other stories and threw them in. I still love this movie and hope to see the original on edited movie some day.
Recently, my sister and I have taken it upon ourselves to rewatch all of our 'classic' Disney movies. While I admit to enjoying a fluffy light princess movie, I thoroughly enjoyed this one.THE BLACK CAULDRON was quite dark, and obviously not meant for children. The first scene alone was enough to give anyone the creeps, and would probably scare a child out of their mind.The main character is, to put it gently, somewhat of a wimp. This is a nice diversion from the regular 'have no fear' royal prince that most Disney movies feature. It also had a princess who actually helped *do* something, unlike many Disney movies where the prince does all the work and the princess sits and looks pretty.The villain, however, is what made this a truly unique Disney film. He was scary. I honestly got very creeped out upon first seeing him. Unlike many villains from Disney movies, he had no humorous qualities, no stupidity. He was just creepy and evil. If I were a child, he would give me nightmares.Of course it had the typical humorous sidekick on both the villain side and good side (what Disney movie doesn't have one?) and the happy ending.I can't say that I have ever read the books, and I am sure that had I read them, I might have been somewhat disappointed in the film. But as it is, I found it very enjoyable, albeit somewhat scary.
In the times of wizards and sorcery in a magical land called Prydain, there was a evil king called The Horned King ( voiced by John Hurt) who's spirit is captured in a powerful thing called 'The Black Cauldron' which is a magical and evil cauldron that has been hidden for a thousand years knowing whoever possessed it can have the power to resurrect an army of undead warriors and rule the world. Taran ( voiced by Grant Bardsley)is an assistant pig-keeper who lives with his mentor Dallban ( voiced by Freddie Jones) with a magical pig who can create visions especially of the Horned King's desire for the mysterious Black Cauldron leads Taran to go on the adventure of a lifetime with new friends like a beautiful princess named Ellionwy ( voiced by Susan Sheridan), a lovable hairy critter named Gurgi ( Voiced by John Byner) and a broken down musician named Ffluder Flem ( voiced by Nigel Haththrone) as they search for the legendary Black Cauldron and must destroy it before the Horned King gets his hands on it.Considered the biggest flop in the history of Disney films, this movie was given a 'PG' rating for dark content and themes and took 9 years in the making for a dark animated fantasy adventure flick. For me i thought this was a very entertaining and different kind of Disney movie that don't go into the musical routines but rather a straight Disney animated movie in the tradition of J.R.R. Tolkein. While it doesn't exactly follow the books well but it does have stunning animation, some early CGI for it's time and offers a lot of great fun for older viewers but not really for younger kids.Also recommended: 'The Dark Crystal', 'Sleeping Beauty', ' The Great Mouse Detective', ' The Fox and The Hound', 'The Last Unicorn', 'The Secret of NIMH', 'Fire & Ice', ' Bambi', 'Rock & Rule', 'Heavy Metal', 'Starchaser: Legend of Orin', ' Oliver & Company', ' Pinocchio', ' The Wizard of Oz', 'Return to Oz', ' The Princess Bride', 'Willow', 'Wizards', ' The Lord of the Rings ( 1978)', 'Harry Potter movies', 'Willy Wonka and The Chocolate Factory', 'Charlie and The Chocolate Factory', 'Conan The Barbarian', ' Mulan', 'Aladdin', ' Beauty and The Beast', ' The Aristocats', ' The Emperor's New Groove', ' Atlantis The Lost Empire', ' The Hunchback of Norte Dame', ' The Lion King', ' Lord of the Rings Trilogy', 'The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe', 'Vampire Hunter D', 'Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust', Princess Mononoke', ' Spirited Away', 'Howl's Moving Castle', 'Castle in the Sky', 'Nausicca: Valley of the Wind', ' Hercules', ' Army of Darkness', ' The Hobbit', 'Return of the King', ' Blade Master', ' Conquest', ' Legend', ' Record of Lodoss Wars', ' Excalibur', 'King Arthur', ' The Fifth Element', ' The Iron Giant', 'Transformers The Movie' and 'The Prince of Egypt'.
OK, so this film came out 5 years before i was born, but i got it on DVD when i was about 7/8 and remember never really liking it that much. I watched it, but was like OMG I HAVE TO WATCH IT OVER AND OVER AGAIN!!I watched it again recently, and realised, i was so right as a kid. The story itself is quite dark, which i like, but the acting (or voicing, whatever lol) is terrible, and i just thought the whole thing was boring. Something i noticed was, it was the magical world of Prydain... so as a welsh speaker, i realised Prydain meant Britain.. So i decided to look on IMDb to find out more. Turns out, it is set in wales, and OK, some of the names are welsh -WHY THE HECK DO THEY ALL SOUND LIKE POSH English SNOBS THEN!!! Welsh and English people have very different accents, so i just couldn't understand how if it was set in wales, why did none of them sound welsh!!Anyway, this film isn't very good, bit of a Disney flop. Watch it if you have nothing better to do, but if you have to pick from this and the lion king, pick the lion king!
Disney really did not do Lloyd Alexander's Prydain Chronicles justice. The movie is actually based on The Book of Three and The Black Caldron. But too much is changed and it sort of drags. I would like to see a better company do a much needed live action version like Narnia or Lord of the Rings. Perhaps Disney should have only stapled their name to it like they did Narnia. I understand you can't always fit a whole book in a movie exactly to its original version, but trying to tackle two of these books in one movie was a bad idea, even though they're about as short as A Series of Unfortunate Events. The Prydain Chronicles is a really wonderful series, someone should really think of taking that project on.
'The Black Cauldron' provides us with 'Exhibit A' of the disorganized nature of the Disney organization from the mid-1970s through the mid-80s. The company's feature films were attracting smaller and smaller audiences, and no real creative force had emerged since Walt Disney's death in 1966. By the mid- to late-70s, it was clear that new ideas needed to be tried. The phenomenal success of 'Star Wars' appeared to offer a sure-fire way to box-office success: sci-fi/fantasy movies. At the same time, Disney Studio's full-length animated features continued their descent from the heights scaled in 1959's 'Sleeping Beauty', at first downscaling the subject matter, then progressing to less and less impressive animation, and finally combining the first two trends with boring storytelling (see 'The Fox and the Hound' - 1981).It was in this context that pre-production began on 'The Black Cauldron' in the late 1970s. From an artistic standpoint, its goals were two-fold. First, the film was to recapture the lead in animation quality that Disney had traditionally held, while the second goal was to incorporate the advances in animation and subject matter made in the 1970s (i.e., playing 'catch up'). Some early decisions were good: the source material was top-notch. Lloyd Alexander's 'Chronicles of Prydain' are fantastic works of fantasy for the young adult - I loved them as a middle-schooler in the mid-80s, and the choice to film the story in 70mm widescreen harkened back to the glory days of 'Sleeping Beauty.' Unfortunately, not much else worked. The studio's writers did a terrible job of condensing the first two books of Alexander's series, and we end up caring little for the characters that emerge, or for the plot as it unfolds. Also, the movie's tone is uneven. Overall, the work is very dark and un-Disney, which would've been fine had it been executed better. Further, the grimness of the plot doesn't mesh with occasionally clumsy and earthy attempts at humor, and the character animation fluctuates between sober naturalism and exaggerated, cartoonish mannerisms (stretching ears, gaping mouths, etc.) Still, some of the shots are stunning and rank among the best in the history of hand-drawn animation (e.g., multiplaned exterior shot of the Horned King's castle, beautiful backgrounds within the same, Hen-Wen's capture by the Horned King's creatures). The result of this mish-mash was a box-office flop ($25 million to make, $5 million in ticket sales upon its 1985 release).In short, see this film for its often-impressive animation and intermittent charm. Be sure to get the newly-available widescreen version on DVD. Bemoan the end of the era of stunning hand-drawn animation (Disney has closed up its shop; 'Home on the Range' was its penultimate hand-drawn feature). Don't expect a classic, but appreciate the vision of its artistry - even if the final product didn't quite mesh satisfactorily. 'The Black Cauldron' is a noble failure.
Following in the tradition of Star Wars, every studio during the 80s was looking for a fresh product to place before the movie-going public so it was not a surprise that there was such an interest in fantasy/sword and sorcery tales. It does not come as a surprise that the Disney Corporation would attempt such a film as 'The Black Cauldron'. But the film also comes at a time of transition in the company. Months before the release, Michael Eisner and Jeffery Katzenburg joined the top brass, and the film was a training ground for a new generation of Disney animator like Tim Burton. The film itself has a grand epic feel, something that was very out of place in most Disney product of the time. But it was not completely different from other previous 'Disneyfied' films. While it was based on the Chronicles of Prydain by Lloyd Alexander, the film carries some trademark Disneyisms. Cute cuddly sidekicks still abound in this feature---Gurgi and the cute clairvoyent pig. But it was far more risky than many of the previous products that the company had offered its public. And while the film became an 'embarrassment' to the company (which is totally unfounded as it was quite good), the film can be seen as a very important point of departure for Disney. There could have been no Little Mermaid or a renaissence of Disney animation if this film had not been produced. 'The Black Cauldron' had a more profound effect on the future of Disney's animation than we think
The Black Cauldron, probably Disney's most interesting and worst grossing film, tells the story of Taran, a young pig keeper who dreams of fame and glory as a famous warrior. However, his caretaker, Dalben, tries to keep him grounded. But when danger strikes, he is urged into hiding, as his pig, Hen-Wen, possesses magical powers that could conjure the legendary black cauldron, which contains dark and mysterious powers. The evil Horned king (John Hurt) seeks it to create a skeleton army. Along with his comrades, The adventurous princess Eilonwy and the fickle and fatherly minstrel (who's lute has a mind of it's own) Fflewdur, and the 'help' of three ugly and manipulative witches, Taran embarks on a journey to find the cauldron.The Black Cauldron is a real exception to the G-rated musicals of the 1940's and 50's. As the first animated Disney film to receive a PG rating, it was the turning point for Disney's way of film-making.Although such films as 'The Little Mermaid' and 'Aladdin' held up the traditional Disney musical flavor, the film introduced the fearless heroine. Although Eilonwy is just a supporting character, she is adventurous and outspoken. Furthermore, it referred to the silent victory of the hero. Taran did indeed triumph, but he didn't receive some lavish prize afterward, he just returned to the home he had wanted to get away from. Finally, it introduced the adult aspect of the Disney film: raw emotion and power. It was highlighted greatly in films released after that, especially in 1996's 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame,' where the adult aspect became apparent.The Black Cauldron is a must for all those who wish to see another side of Disney.
When I was little I remember when they release the BLACK CAULDRON again on remaster video release I've been asking for it but I never got it and now that I went to get this movie I saw it and I understand why I never got it when it came out and I also understand why this movie did so poorly at the box office this movie wasn't good at all, at first I try to give a chance to like it but I just couldn't like it. The characters are not at all following like other Disney characters, with the whole pig boy who wants to become a hero who acts scared really and the princess I found most annoying with her flying ball and that old guy is the same way too. Disney can't think of anything new at all.
Without any doubt the scariest of all Disney-features, this film has some remarkably obvious Disney-traits. Among them are the funny bad-guys and the disturbing comic-relief scenes. The script-writers have obviously had trouble squeezing Alexander's characters in. Hen Wen is initially the main character of the movie: however, the cute little pig disappears half-way. Gurgi's role changes, and Eilonwy's bauble vanishes. The film is also cut in two: there are two great climaxes, and they sadly stand apart with the disappearance of HenWen. It is a nasty blemish on an otherwise very entertaining classic: no vexatious singing, but wonderful exiting background music. The animation on the dragons and landscapes is stunning, the looks of personae are well-designed, the suspense in some of the scenes is intense. It is definitely a film I enjoyed after the first time. A must for fantasy-lovers.
Although it was a flop, this film is very mature, hence the PG rating. Most Disney films are aimed at the whole family, but this film is for kids 7 and up in my opinion because of the frightening material. Other Disney films have frightening moments like Snow White, Pinocchio, Fantasia, Bambi, Lady and the Tramp, Sleeping Beauty, and The Fox and the Hound, this one remains the most frightening, but I am not afraid of it. The gwythaints in the film make it scary as well as the Horned King himself. The characters are okay, my favorite characters are Fflewdurr Flem and Gurgi. The film is worthy to animation and Disney fans, let it be part of your library.
The Black Cauldron follows the quest of a young pigkeeper's apprentice to prevent the evil Horned King from unleashing the power of the black cauldron and effacing all life from the world. Surprisingly dark for a Disney movie, it offers more than the usual amount of frightening scenes, violence, and even some sexual innuendo (which is sure to pass over the head of young viewers). Luckily, it also features a cast of memorable characters -- the lovable, despicable, and comical -- that carry the magical Tolkien-esquire story through to the end. Imaginative animation, excellent voice work and a great orchestral score help to make The Black Cauldron a classic, albeit an under-appreciated one. Recommended, though it may be too scary for very young children.
So many striking similarities between Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings and The Black Cauldron:A magical item, the black cauldron/the ring, granting excessive power. A wise wizard initiating an unexperienced lad. Cute companions to follow the lad. Flying black dragons vs. dark riders. A prophetic pig vs. a crystal ball.But as that, a twisted copy of something much larger, it was not very exciting nor does it have much depth, and it's not cute and funny either.My wife and I turned off after 20 minutes although we were looking forward to this Disney movie.
1st watched 10/2/2004 - 7 out of 10(Dir- Ted Berman & Richard Rich): Well-done overlooked Disney film. This is one of the movies that came out before 'Little Mermaid' in 1989 similar to 'The Great Mouse Detective' that didn't get much attention but nevertheless was a well-done story & production. This may have been the first animated Disney film to be rated PG as well, which may have kept people away. The PG rating may have been given for a small blood being shown on the mouth of our hero or the very scary zombie-like 'Horn King' who has to rate up there as one of the truly scary villains in the Disney films. The story revolves around the Horn King's reign and his attempt to have greater reign over the world by finding the Black Cauldron. An enchanted pig that is able to see the future is also much wanted by the Horn King in order to find out where the Black Cauldron is. What makes this movie good is the story, the animation, the music, and the overall presentation. I also like that it didn't follow other Disney films and became it's own entity. This may be another reason it's not associated with Disney often. Overall this is a very groundbreaking Disney film, but it was so forgotten that it's not had any impact on the future of Disney.
In 1985 I was a prime candidate for watching this movie: right age and having read the original books.Luckily I saw a promo before I got too excited and never did see it. Now I chose to watch the film for some reason, and I must say: Don't.The animation has not withstood the test of time and the story is very poorly written.That's not even mentioning the fact that I want to maim and kill every last bastard on the writing team for so completely ruining the best piece of children's literature in the world.Read the books.
'The Black Cauldron' is not a typical Disney animated feature.  For one thing, it's not a G-rated musical.  In fact, it was the first-ever Disney feature to receive a PG rating.  The story comes from the works of Lloyd Alexander, in the spirit of J.R.R. Tolkien.  In it, Taran, a young pig-keeper must protect Henwen, a prophetic pig who can divine the whereabouts of a powerful weapon known as the Black Cauldron.  The demonic Horned King is after this bastion of black magic to create an invincible army of the undead.  This movie boasts impressive art shot in 70mm widescreen format, art which includes the contributions of a young Tim Burton.  Sadly, this feature did poorly in theaters, possibly being too frightening, or going over the heads of Disney's usual target audience. Just the same, 'The Black Cauldron' deserves a good look!
This film fell under three of my 'to-view-or-review' lists: Disney Phase II efforts, 80s fantasy, and 80s animation.  (Yes, I enjoy 80s culture.) Fantasy films like this run on four theme elements: good, evil, design and differentiations.  The fifth element is trickier, the public reception to the constructed universe.Spoilers exist...The first and second run on stereotypes--the page warrior, the virginal princess, the Dark Lord.  The Villian design is from 'Heavy Metal'-style TV cartoons.  The witches are French stereotypes: how else do you explain the red hair, appetite for frogs, and power scheming?  The minstrel is the play-within element, the actor playing the actor.  Gurgi is the Jew/Russian stand-in.  Disney's images come from past work--'Fantasia', 'Beauty', 'Dalmatians'. Interestingly, Disney tries to make everything appear normal in our distinct Western configuration while Scott wanted 'Legend' to be hyperreal and hyperbole--just look at Darkness.  By comparison, the Horned King is Emperor Palpatine, plain.'Conan' shifted our interpretation of the first element, 'Legend' mastered the third and 'Dragonslayer' emphasized the fourth (the most daring so far). The biggest differentiations here come in lesser details.  The dragons, the skeletons, and the atmosphere we've seen before, but to lesser effect.  I noticed in 'Mulan' how Disney kept from showing war-dead, lest they spoil the happy mood they spent years perfecting.  According to IMDb trivia, Katzenberg censored this upon release, probably wrecking the more mature content.  He then decided to make his own version with 'Shrek' after defecting.  Meanwhile, Peter Jackson decided that since he has $300 million to blow, he wants everything.  So he turns elves and orcs into Aryans (either physically or philosophically) and all Gollum's mannerisms stem from Gurgi.  Some things don't change...Overall, this is not as complex as 'Wizards'.  Not as visual as 'Legend'. Not as world-weary as 'Dragonslayer' (which had no comic relief).  We didn't want this foreign theme in our pop culture ideas--mostly sentimental--of what Disney movies are supposed to be (the same fate befell the 'Oz' sequel) so this has historical significance in charting Disney's retreat to Phase III formula.Bernstein copies his 'Ghostbusters' compilation for the score.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material
Man, why can't Disney make more films like 'The Black Cauldron'? When Disney is doing PG-rated animated features these days, why do they have to throw in some 'gross-out' humor, that would make the creators of 'The Garbage Pail Kids' blush? Or why are they STILL trying to do some sickening sweet swill films ever since 'The Little Mermaid'? I really love this film and here is why:1. NO BROADWAY-ESQUE SONGS!2. Dark, yet lovely animation.3. The hero and heroine are actually IMPERFECT children, unlike most Disney films, where the heroes are usually 'perfect' teenagers or adults.4. Scary evil villains. The villains are not hammy or comical this time around, making a homage to the old films.5. John Hurt does the voice of the evil demon king, enough said there!I just pray that Disney learns to make more films like this and less like 'Lilo and Stitch' and 'Treasure Planet'.
If you've read the books, this movie is a wretched butchering of Mr. Alexander's work.  If you haven't read the books, gently put this awful movie away and read the books instead.  They're by Lloyd Alexander and any library will have them.  Two of the five books received Newberry Awards (for excellence in children's literature)It is possible to change a book and still have a great movie - witness The Shining or The Lord of the Rings.  This film, with its TEN screenwriters, is a testament to just how awful an adaptation can be.
Beginning, as all films really should, with John Huston narration, which fills us in on the titular object, Disney's 'Black Cauldron' was a noble experiment that mostly clicks. In the 1980's, there was a glut of films aimed for child audiences that were not patronizing, like 'Twice Upon a Time', 'Rock & Rule' and 'Pogo for President', and 'Cauldron' sought to do the same thing. 'Black Cauldron' is a strange, paranoid film that's definitely unnerving at times. An almost unrecognizable John Hurt voices the Horned King, easily one of the greatest cinematic villains ever. I am familiar with the Chronicles of Prydain, and while some major characters don't appear, those that do stick closely to what Lloyd Alexander originally intended for them.As a stand-alone film, it's very entertaining and re-watchable. Go check out the DVD, which is unfortunately not the long dreamt-of 'director's cut' of the film, which is still in the Disney vaults for the time being.
The movie's okay, but as usual when Disney sets out to turn books into movies, something gets lost. rather than do the tale of one book out of the five (six, technically, counting the one of short stories), Disney attempts to cram two books into one movie, with a slight reference to the final book (the kiss). The characterization is off, plot points are missed, and what emerges is an okay movie, but is essentially trash for fans of the books. These fans, and I am one, must watch the movie without expectations, in order for it to be decent.
Disney studios seemed to endure a lull of about 15 years, beginning in the early '70s with Robin Hood and lasting right through until (and beyond) 1985. The Black Cauldron is nowhere near vintage Disney, but it's not without certain merits. For one thing, the animation is mighty impressive and marked the beginning of dazzling technological advances in Disney's animated features. Also, the voice-overs are excellent (with John Hurt a particular stand-out, bringing real menace to The Horned King). However, the problem here is that the decidedly uninspired storytelling severely lets down the film.The story follows a young pig keeper as he tries to protect a magical pig from the forces of darkness. The pig has the power to tell the future when its face is dipped in a pool of water, and an evil Horned King seeks the creature in order to use its magical skill to locate a long-lost black cauldron. If the black cauldron ever falls into the hands of the Horned King, then he will become all-powerful and rule the land.You don't have to know much about the fantasy genre to realise that this is a thinly disguised retread of The Lord of the Rings. For the black cauldron, read 'the one true ring'. For the Horned King, read 'Sauron, the dark lord'. Indeed, it's no exaggeration to suggest that this film is a sort of Lord of the Rings substitute for those with only 80 minutes to spare. While the film is just about enjoyable enough (especially for kids) it doesn't aspire to the high quality of previous Disney classics. It also might seem mildly entertaining whilst on, but it fades out of the memory all too quickly afterwards. See The Black Cauldron if you're a Disney completist, but if you're looking for real quality stick with some of the old classics, like Dumbo and Lady and the Tramp.
I saw this movie [well, the Dutch version] in the cinema when I was 4, and ran out crying. Quite at the beginning as well...Now, 15 years later, I've seen it again, and I loved it. As I like fantasy, this film was right up my street. I later read the books by Lloyd Alexander, and Disney messed things up a little bit, but that's okay, they did the best they could. Problem is that it's not suitable for little children. Something you'd not expect from Disney. The Horned King is, with his appearance and his frightful dragons, maybe a bit too frightening for little children, and the plot takes a [unexpected? maybe..] turn and that might not be good for little children to see, as that's really scary.Don't expect Disney-sing-a-longs, but a cool story and a real villain. If you like fantasy, you'll like this!
I am a hard core Disney fan. I have seen every Disney animated movie out there, and own a collection of over 20 on DVD and VHS. But I had never heard of this movie until it was rereleased in 2001. So, I immediately bought it, without having viewed it prior to purchasing it. BIG MISTAKE! I took it home and my husband, myself and our 2 year old son sat down to watch it. I never finished it, although my husband did, and I sold it online 3 days later. Not one of us liked it. At first it seemed like a Sword in the Stone kind of movie, which is a movie I like. But then, about 15 minutes into it, I (23 years old) started to get a little freaked out and scared by it. Not terrified, just uneasy. The main villian, whose name I do not remember (something I do NOT feel guilty about) is a scary, skeleton like creature. His lair (which seemed to be very simular to Maleficent's lair from Sleeping Beauty, another movie I like) was a dark, awful place. Within 45 minutes, my 2 year old and I were in his bedroom reading books that I hoped would get him to forget about the movie he had just seen. It was not easy considering he was still crying, but at least no longer holding on to me for dear life. To be honest, I could relate to my son, as I had felt like shielding my eyes for the short time I was watching the movie. This was NOT a kids movie. Now I understand why I had never heard of it before, and why Disney does not advertise about it a lot. It does NOT fit Disney's good movie mold. I give this movie a 0 out of 10 and a recommendation to all viewers not to waste your time or money on this movie, especially if you have small children. Disney has so many good movies out there, and I hope people will remember that and do not judge Disney based solely on the viewing of this one, awful film. Rent Cinderella, Beauty and the Beast or 101 Dalmations instead. Those will give you a pleasent evening with your children.
Lloyd Alexander's series of adventure books (Including 'The Book of Three, 'The Black Cauldron', 'The Castle of Llyr', 'Taran Wanderer' and 'The High King') are a kind of 'introduction' for younger people into larger and more adult and complex fantasy/adventure authors like Tolkien. However, even as books intended for a young audience, they contain a great deal of darkness, sadness and themes that older people will appreciate as well.They would make exceptional movies. However, Disney's lame attempt to condense the first two books into one movie (and completely ignore the last three), was doomed.'The Black Cauldron' can only appeal to a very small audience: people who are both not fans of Disney movies and people who are unfamiliar with the book series. This film is far too dark and violent for most parents to want to rent it for their 5 year old, yet it is considerably too 'Disneyfied' to appeal to anyone familiar with the original stories. The story is changed, contorted, strained, shook out and then hung up to dry to the point that Lloyd Alexander fans will be wondering what they are watching. Too many important characters have been bastardized or omitted entirely and the story is virtually re-written.What Disney attempted to do here was appeal to two different groups. They wanted a movie that people could take their kids to (which is why mush of the actual violence is toned down). Instead, they have alienated everyone. Probably why they were loath to release it in the first place.This could have been done wonderfully (As Lord of the Rings is currently being done), whether as live action or animated. The fact that this is such a miserable example makes it that much sadder that nobody has bothered to do so yet.Avoid 'The Black Cauldron'.
In 1975, I flew to Orlando Florida to visit Disney World. While shopping in the stores, I bought a book about Disney animation. Included in it was some rough concept art for THE BLACK CAULDRON. I remember hoping that the movie would be released, soon. Being 14 at the time, I thought of Disney movies as pretty much lame kiddie movies, but this looked pretty cool.Fast forward a decade, to me as a graduating senior from college. I remember hearing that the movie was in theaters, then POOF!, gone. Never to be heard of again, or so we thought.In the early 1990's a wife of a friend of mine was a manager at a local Disney Store, and I asked her when BLACK CAULDRON might be available on VHS. She rolled her eyes up in her head, and said, 'Pretty much, never!'. Apparently a lot of folks asked that same question, and she told me that BC, is the movie that Disney chooses to forget. Then, a few years later, we all went to one of the theme parks at Disney and were looking in a store that sold movie posters for their `great' movies. In the huge stack of `Little Mermaid' and `Aladdin' posters was one for BLACK CAULDRON. My friend's wife seemed amazed at finding it, and she said that `Disney must be considering re-releasing the movie if this poster is here'. And surprise, in 1998, we found it on the shelves of our local video store.My wife and I decided to preview it before we let our young daughters see it. And man, am I glad we did. Truly NOT a movie for the under 7 or so set. Dark, deep, and troubled, is the best way to describe BC. I do like more `mature' animation, but this seemed a mish mash of past Disney style, fantasy art, and a move in a new direction of animation.The other disappointing part of the 1998 release was, that it's in Full Screen format. What a let down as the movie is one of only two, I believe, 70 MM format animated Disney movies. SLEEPING BEAUTY, being the other, and that WAS available in VHS wide screen format. The print that was used to make the tape, also appeared to be very poor, and it appeared to have been edited, as one or two scene transitions didn't seem smooth.
I may rent the DVD, and give it another try, but as previous posters have stated, it's not for everyone. And definitely NOT for the wee ones, who are best suited for `LITTLE MERMAID'.
Unlikely and ill-prepared young hero going on a quest? Check. Couple of sidekicks, one of them a magician of some kind, the other an animal of some kind? Check. Evildoer who lives in a dark castle and has found some physical object that has the power to control the world? Check. Lovely girl to play the damsel? Check. And what am I forgetting... Oh yeah. All of them live in a quasi-Medieval fantasy world and have weird names? Check! Yes, all the staple elements are here, happy endings all around, no surprises. And my GOD... This movie is SO boring I could barely get through it. This is the first and only Disney movie that is genuinely boring. The script is dull, the animation lacks any style or originality, the characters remain clichéd and undeveloped throughout, and the story is so plodding I was on the verge of fast forwarding... (And that's saying a lot, because I'm into animation in a big way.) Easily Disney's worst film, and it has nothing to do with the grave content- This could be pastel and singsong and it would still be totally awful- The script is totally devoid of anything meaningful or interesting. If you want a GOOD animated movie that is serious fantasy, get The Secret of NIMH. 'The Black Cauldron'? Quite possibly the only Disney film that should have stayed in the Vault. My score: 3 out of 10.
Lately, Disney had seemed to take a bit of a plunge in its quality of its movies.  (I'm not too fond of movies like Lion King or Little Mermaid, well until the Toy Story series, but that's another story.)  I first heard of the Black Cauldron when my younger brother got this on a book and tape, and I found that I loved the story so much, I memorized the book and sometimes snagged it.  When I heard it was coming out on video, I got really excited.The Black Cauldron does have a deliciously 'dark' theme to it, which makes it so much better than a normal Disney 'light and happy' film, and the cast of characters is much better than usual.  I especially like the Horned King, with his weird, Grim-Weeper sort of look.  The story is of Taran, a young pigkeeper, who dreams of being Prydain's finest warrior.  His pig, Hen Wen, has an ability to create visions, which is probably where the trouble starts.The Horned King learns of Hen Wen's ability, and longs to use her to find the Black Cauldron.  The Black Cauldron is an evil weapon made when 'a wicked king so cruel and so evil that no prison could hold him, was thrown alive into a crucible of molten iron.'  The Black Cauldron can enable any man the power to rule the world--or destroy it.  Go figure.  No wonder it's so sought after.I love the animation.  I espescially love most of the scenes that show the Horned King's castle.  They look so real, that you can't help believing it really exists.  (Well, you probably know better, but hey.)  And the scenes were the Horned King is working the Cauldron's magic is always worth a view.  I also like many of the lines, like the Horned King's sarcasm. ('My, such a brave and handsome crew: a pigboy, a scullery maid, and a broken down minstrel.')  One other bonus is none of those annoying, stupid songs that Disney has invented over the past ten years (With the exception of 'Nightmare Before Christmas,' which had some pretty cool hits.)This movie is definately one of Disney's finest.  Disney needs to do more films like this.  I've heard that Tim Burton has helped animate this. I'm not really surprised.  The movie has a touch of that 'Nightmare' air to it, from the gothic scenes to the characters, which are just a tiny bit twisted.  There is this one scene at the end where the Horned King actually looks a lot like Jack Skellington. (The Horned King is looking over a balcony, and for one brief second, you'll see the connection between the two characters.) I give this a perfect 10/10.
I heard of this movie for a while and read great reviews. I recently purchased this film to add to my collection and as I watched it I was amazed!!!!!! This was a Disney Movie????!!!!!!!! I couldn't believe it!!! This is totally not their style and it is sad how they never use this any more. I do realise, however, that this movie was made during the 'Dark Period' where movies (especially animations) were based a lot on fantasy, serious, and were rather dark. Such movies can include The Last Unicorn, The Lord of the Rings ('78 version), Watership Down, and many others. These movies weren't your typical children's 'happy tales'; they had no horrible unfunny singing (the only singing they had was good!), no stupid side-kicks, no 'love of first sight and getting happily married at the end', and no wimpy-pointless plots. These films were made with bitter-sweet endings that were made to help us learn more and recognise more things in life, they had powerful messages some of them. The Black Cauldron has no singing. This movie is quite evil at parts and has dark scenes. The characters are rather serious and the story progresses well. To-day this animation would be considered 'old animation' but I like this style better! Too many things have been computerised these days. The old style which was very detailed with many shades was my favourite. The colours seem to come out better and add more affect this way. Overall I give this movie a 9.5/10. I just wish Disney could make movies like this again. But I still have my hopes and await the day when this type of genre returns. 'The Lord of the Rings' (2001) is a start.
'The Black Cauldron' certainly doesn't fall into the genre of animated Disney family favorite, but instead feels much like the more grim and complicated fantasy films that were made in the eighties. Does it stack up to such films as 'Return To Oz' and 'The Dark Crystal'? Well, although not as complex as the aformentioned, this film is not without its charm.The story of Taran, the pig-keeper's journey from gawky boy to gawky boy-hero apparently works better as told through the course of five books, and indeed it is the plot that feels put together, with a lot cut out of it for it's slim 1:20 running time.  Also suffering because of the short time is any character development, or a reason why the charcter of Dallben (an old minstrel) are in the film at all. However, this film still has a lot going for it.The film has a wonderful pacing to it with some fantastic action scenes. It is adventurous and fun. An engaing film for any fantasy fan. What really makes the film though is it's terrifying and dastardly villain, The Horned King. He is basically a Skeletor knock off with absolutely no sense of humor. He looks like he stepped right out of an Iron Maden album cover, and that is a monumental good thing. The true threat felt by the presence of this decidedly un-Disney character keeps the tension of the film high.It is this contrast, between the unconventionally ghoulish villans (definatly enspirered by Bakshi's animated adaptation of 'Lord of the Rings') and the stock Disney characters makes the audience care more-so for the cutesy characters than usual. This is especially true for the cutsey character of Gurgi, who is much more tollerable than almost all other Disney sidekicks and especially more tollerable than a certain J*r J*r B*nks that we have all been over exposed to lately.So I would recommend 'The Black Cauldron', it's a fun and well animated adventure film. Compleatly scary and strange for Disney to make, but still very very good for other reasons nonetheless.
For years before I saw this film, I had been a fan of Lloyd Alexander's books.  To me, The Chronicles of Preydain rank alongside Tolkien's Middle Earth and Lewis' Narnia as one of the greatest fantasy worlds of all time. Based deeply in Welsh legend and Mythology (many elements come directly from The Mabinogion, almost the bible of Welsh mythology) Preydain is easily one of the deepest, and most developed worlds out there.  So, needless to say, when I heard that Disney had a film in the pipeline, I got very excited. Then I saw it...I can't say that I hated it.  More that I was disappointed.  This wasn't the Preydain I knew.  It was more a fairy tale kingdom than celtic Wales.  And what did they do with the characters?  Gurgi a cute fuzzy monster?  Elonwy turned into a typical damsel in distress?  And where were Coll, or Gwydon? I'm sorry, but I didn't know these people.  The characters were all different?  And what about the rich sense of legend?  The books had been based deeply on mythology, but the movie took the first two books, sprinkled bits and pieces of them into a script, and added a ton of fairy tale and fantasy cliches.I've always wondered what it is with Disney writers that makes them feel it necessary to screw around with anything and everything (witness the amount of 'creative license' taken with Pocahantas or Mulan.)  I'm sorry, but you don't have to have cute characters or happy endings on everything.  But Disney's writers think that you must.  And in this case, it cheapened the ending of the film.  One of the major plot points of The Black Cauldron is that the cauldron can only be destroyed by a living person sacrificing themselves by throwing themselves into it.  This was kept in the film.  Yet, when Disney did it, they still copped out to the happy ending by having the three Enchantresses, Ordu, Orwen, and Oregch bring him back to life... Jeeze!It went on from there.  The absence of the true villan of the Preydain chronicles, Arawn, the lord of the dead, the turning of the fair folk (who in celtic mythology were more akin to elves and dwarves) into stock, albeit grouchy, faries....  The list goes on...  Disney ruined one of my favorite stories, and I can't ever forget that.  Even my love for Disney masterpieces like Beauty and the Beast or 101 Dalmations is tarnished by what they did to some of my favorite books of my youth...
I first heard about 'The Black Cauldron' in 1994, when I was shopping in Copenhagen for some Laserdiscs. I had the soundtrack from it on a second hand LP album, but it wasn't released on video yet, and the store clerk told me that the news from The Disney Studios was that the movie finally was to be released. I was looking forward to the coming of it, and when it got in the stores, I got my copy on VHS PAL. Unfortunately it wasn't presented in the original theatrical aspect ratio, but the newly released DVD edition on Regional 1 encoding is presented in the original WIDESCREEN presentation. I can't wait to get a hold of it to watch this wonderful movie in all it's glory. I can only recommend that you buy this movie, if you don't have it already in your collection of Disney Classics.
Even though the series of books that The Black Cauldron was based on, the Prydain series by Lloyd Alexander, is one of my favorite childrens series, I was disappointed with this movie. The Black Caldron is the second book in the series, which has nothing to do with the Horned King, which is the villain in the first book, The Book of Three. Also, Gurgi is not the one who ultimately destroys the cauldron, it is another character, Ellidyr. Also, he does die, for good, he isn't brought back to life by the three O's. In any case, if anyone is going to do a movie about those great adventure books, they should at least get the books straight, and do a series, as opposed to trying to cram the most interesting things into a disjointed jumble of animation, and leaving out such key figures as Coll and Gwydoin.
harmless enough, but it lets the cat out of the bag: Hollywood scriptwriters only pretend to study literature on their way to the big bucks. Otherwise they'd have known the dollops of Disney cute that are larded over characters of ambiguous appeal could only choke the message. To Disney, the Ugly Duckling is a cuddly pet.An echo of some greater work is here, though, in the classical score.
Okay. This isn't really great Disney. The characters are very dull and underdeveloped.  The story is also somewhat dry and very uneven. It occasionally dips into bad fantasy elements. But when the movie is looked at more closely, is The Black Cauldron really all that bad? It follows a pretty basic but likeable story pattern. You know. Good fighting evil. Friendship. Sacrifices. Even a little blood! That's the stuff of storybooks. Plus, it doesn't use that awful cookie cutter formula that modern Disney likes using. I even remember liking this movie as a kid. This isn't exactly great Disney, but it's not all that bad.
I must say first that my opinion on this film is slightly biased. I was one of the handful of people to have seen this film on its initial theatrical run. I was also 11 and a boy (a target audience of this film). I owned the Gurgi and Hen Wen plushes, got excited by the preview on the 'Pinocchio' video, etc.,etc.After seeing the movie, I remember being entertained (maybe not enthralled) by the film and was saddened by Gurgi's sacrifice at the end.Years passed. And passed. And passed. And people seemed to have forgotten 'Black Cauldron' in the wake of 'Little Mermaid' and her successors.I must admit that I became somewhat obsessed with finding out why Disney thought of the film so poorly and why everyone gave me 'blank stares' when I mentioned it. To say the least, I longed for a video release of the film.A year or two ago, I got my wish, and now that I'm older and 'wiser' I'm able to make a better judgement of the film. Is it Disney's worst film ever? Absolutely not. 'Black Cauldron' is probably the finest animated film of the 1980's ('Little Mermaid' not withstanding). It IS a scary film for young kids (hence the PG rating) but I think audiences today are able to deal with that more than they were back in 1985 (just look at 'Dinosaur,' 'Road to El Dorado,' and the upcoming 'Titan AE' which are all rated PG). The story may not be up to Disney standards, but for a film of its genre (i.e fantasy) it has a very compelling and understandable story. The animation has its highs and lows. But this film was made by a large number of people over a long period of time, so it is inevitable that there should be some fluctuation in quality.Lastly, I too have read Lloyd Alexander's books, and I too adore them. No, Disney's film does not even begin to compare to the books, but what movie does?On its own terms, 'Black Cauldron' stands as a remarkable achievement in animation, and a film for those people who don't just think cartoons are 'babysitters for kids.'
Not bad. Fun enough. Warm. Would've been a little better if Oliver stayed with the gang, just more fun and it'd give potential for sequels. But alas...
It has a decent plot, good characters, and great songs; I recommend it if you are a good Disney fan.
The songs and voice acting is brilliant, the rest sucks.
The singing, the stars; juust not there yet, so LMFAO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
'Oliver and Company' is a wonderful and fun adventure! Despite a by-the-numbers plot, the film does its best to provide the fun and adventure that it can. Adding to the fun and adventure is the animation and, especially, the really charming animals. Come on, who does not want an Oliver toy!
After never really hearing about this film, I honestly had no idea what to expect here, as the polarizing reviews sort of made me keep this at arms length, as I didn't want to be disappointed. However, after finally getting around to it, to say I was pleasantly surprised would be an understatement. That's not to say it's on the same level as instant classics like 'The Little Mermaid' or 'Beauty and the Beast', as it's got some things that I would've done differently, but for what it is, it's still a fun time. The story is well written, and the way it was told with animals all filled with charm is genius, making this one of the more pleasant adaptations of the Charles Dickens story I've seen. Speaking of the animals, every character in this film has a trait that makes them all distinct from one another, and they all work great. I also love the atmosphere of the film, as it can sometimes be a little dark, but lively as well-sometimes at the same time. The music is catchy, too, with some work from the great, Billy Joel. While I can understand that it may be too poppy for some, it's still nice to hear well written tunes different from the usual orchestral sound from most other Disney films-though they are all excellent, too. Overall, this film really feels like a winner. However, as I said, this film is far from perfect. One problem I have with it is the somewhat inconsistent animation. It's pretty good throughout, but there are times where it can be pretty smooth, while other times, it can be somewhat choppy. Nothing bad by any means, but it's a bit disappointing to see animation that's not exactly up to the standards of most other Disney films around or before this released. This isn't the only film with the issue, so I'm not going to harp on it too much. The other issue I have is the pacing. This is a fast paced movie, and while that, in and of itself, isn't a bad thing, what can be is when the movie can be so fast, that it sometimes forgets to delve deeper into the story. As much as I love the characters here, I'd love them more if I knew more about them. Like Georgette. I thought she was against Oliver living with her, and yet, she's okay with it later in the film with no explanation. I feel like if the writing was more fleshed out in some spots, this could've been remembered as a classic by many, even with the decent, but not spectacular animation. As it stands, it's a bit flawed. That's not to say I don't recommend it, as I think that anyone with the right mindset will really enjoy what's here. It's not only adorable, but consistently charming, and I can't help but like it a lot otherwise. I believe it gets better with time, and I'm sure the more people see it, the more it's reception will get better.
Mr. Sykes is a horrible gangster than threatens Fagin's life if he doesn't pay back an overdue loan. He brandishes a gun and has two mean Doberman dogs. Both he and his dogs die in a car crash with a subway train. Not graphic, but I therefore can't recommend it for very young children. This seems a bit 'heavy' for a Disney adventure that otherwise is a real 'knockout' in terms of music, animation, and characterizations. (Of course all the animals can talk! It's Disney.) Perhaps not a true Disney Classic, but otherwise very clever, quite entertaining and short. (It's only 74 minutes.) Excellent new music and voices by Huey Lewis, Bette Midler, Billy Joel, and others.
A fun animated musical.'Oliver & Company' isn't anything revolutionary, it follows similar beats to other children/animal Disney films, but the mix of the songs and a heartfelt premise is done very well.The characters here are more than decent, though the voice cast are the reason why they are more memorable than they would otherwise be. Joey Lawrence (Oliver) and Billy Joel (Dodger) are the most notable, but Cheech Marin (Tito), Dom DeLuise (Fagin) and Robert Loggia (Sykes) all give something noteworthy too.I like the animation style for the majority, aside from a few moments where it's a little less rounded off with senseless static backgrounds. The plot, as already noted, is quite hearty yet also funny, with the music keeping things feeling vibrant.Another solid production from this decade of Disney.
This film has a very modern 'New York City' style that sets it apart from Disney's other works. The premise of the film, Oliver Twist with dogs, is great and it is executed well with a lot of good characters and jokes.
We all liked this movie, including the catchy soundtrack. I enjoyed the animation of late 1980s New York, and felt a bit nostalgiac, even though I didn't see it as a child. Billy Joel performs one of the songs, and voices the main dog character, and somehow the movie seems to be an animated incarnation of his song writing.Seb's Rating: 7 Stars
Sienna's Rating: 7 Stars
Paul's Rating: 7 Stars.
This animation is very cute and sad. Is wonderful.
Is so funny. Movie of pets Always are adorable. Oliver is so cut
A cute movie. Film of pets Always are adorable. I Love so much
In this contemporary talking-animal fable, a loose interpretation of Oliver Twist, Disney tries to appear street-smart, hip and relevant. So powerful is that urge, to seem youthful and cool, that the first major sing-along, performed by a dog in sunglasses (and voiced by Billy Joel), literally spells it out for us. Check it out, kids, we're still with-it. We know what's rad. Joel had a hit or two left in him at the time, though it's fair to say he was far from pop freshness, and Disney was stuck in the midst of a creative dry spell, so the whole attempt feels hollow, insecure and corporate. A real try-hard. The limp storyline doesn't provide much help, wasting an eccentric Dom DeLuise performance on a simple homeless character who errantly floats in and out of the plot as needed, but the animation department deserves credit for their continued pursuit of the next big thing. In this case, that means computer-aided animation; a bold and impressive use of new tools which give both the pristine city skyline and its sharp, menacing automotive occupants an unusual sense of depth and perspective. It still looks and feels like a Disney movie, despite the (then) cutting-edge techniques, which is also commendable. Shame the rest of the act wasn't up to par. Simple and by-the-numbers, it's bright and pretty but not even remotely special.
In this contemporary talking-animal fable, a loose interpretation of Oliver Twist, Disney tries to appear street-smart, hip and relevant. So powerful is that urge, to seem youthful and cool, that the first major sing-along, performed by a dog in sunglasses (and voiced by Billy Joel), literally spells it out for us. Check it out, kids, we're still with-it. We know what's rad. Joel had a hit or two left in him at the time, though it's fair to say he was far from pop freshness, and Disney was stuck in the midst of a creative dry spell, so the whole attempt feels hollow, insecure and corporate. A real try-hard.The limp storyline doesn't provide much help, wasting an eccentric Dom DeLuise performance on a simple homeless character who errantly floats in and out of the plot as needed, but the animation department deserves credit for their continued pursuit of the next big thing. In this case, that means computer-aided animation; a bold and impressive use of new tools which give both the pristine city skyline and its sharp, menacing automotive occupants an unusual sense of depth and perspective. It still looks and feels like a Disney movie, despite the (then) cutting-edge techniques, which is also commendable. Shame the rest of the act wasn't up to par. Simple and by-the-numbers, it's bright and pretty but not even remotely special.
I don't understand why no one ever talks about this Disney movie. Sure it's not a timeless classic like The Lion King but does that mean this film isn't good. Absolutely not. Oliver & Company is such a very sweet Disney movie with a good story, wonderful characters, and great emotions. While I do wish the movie was a little longer, it's not a huge problem for me as everything it does good, it does so well. This is such an underrated movie that more people need to see. 7/10
It's now 2020 and this awesome movie still has no sequel or TV series. WTF Disney, GET YOUR GAME TOGETHER AND DO SOMETHING FOR THIS AWESOME MOVIE
Oliver and Company is proof the borrower is slave to the lender.
I'm rewatching this movie 22 years after it was released and loving it as if I was watching it for the first time. I had no idea who the voices were as a child but I appreciate it so much more now that I know. This movie was incredibly underrated.
When 'Oliver & Company' began, it was quickly obvious that it was the most poorly animated full-length film that Disney produced. Oddly, I saw a lot of reviews giving it 10s....which I cannot understand considering that the artwork is WORSE than many television cartoons...and I am not exaggerating. It represents the absolute nadir in Disney animation....and by comparison, 'The Black Cauldron' is a classic when it comes to the art. To me, it looks like Disney wasn't even trying and simply thought that parents would take their kids to ANYTHING provided it bore the Disney name. It's really hard to imagine that only a year later Disney would bring us the exquisite 'Little Mermaid' and the two films look as if they came from different studios!In addition to the horrid artwork, the voices and music often seem out of place. A few of the voice actors (such as Joey Lawrence and Cheech Marin) sounded all wrong for animation (such as Billy Joel) and the songs sounded more appropriate for an MTV video of the late 80s instead of being for a kids movie.So, despite being an artistic mess, is the film and story worth seeing? Perhaps...if you're looking for a version of 'Oliver Twist' but starring dogs and people. My recommendation is that you do what I did....watch EVERY Disney full-length animated film and then, if you need more, give 'Oliver & Company' a try...understanding you are seeing their very worst.By the way, I think the reason this film received quite a few 9s and 10s is simply that folks LOVE Disney or saw the film as children and loved it. And, while I do love Disney animation, I cannot in good conscience recommend a film that Disney didn't even bother trying to make into a good film....and rival studios, such as Don Bluth, were making so much better cartoons at the time. Boring, cheap and a sad, sad film to watch because of it's lack of quality.By the way, I saw this movie the same day I watched 'Home on the Range'. Both are among the very worst Disney animated films but I preferred 'Home on the Range' as it wasn't quite as awful as 'Oliver & Company'. The animation to 'Home on the Range' was poor but not nearly as talentless as that you'll see in 'Oliver & Company'.
The absolute idiocy of some of these reviews literally AMAZE me!Bad CGI effects???
THE MOVIE IS 31 YEARS OLD, THEY DID NOT HAVE CGI BACK IN 1988!!!Clearly, the ones reviewing in 2019 are part of the snowflake generation. You're offended because it's too violent for kids? If you'd grown up when we did, you would've had a coronary by the time you were 5.This was one of my all-time faves back in the late 80s and early 90s. So much so that I named the cat I got when I was 8 years old Oliver, even though he wasn't orange.
An hour of 1980s New York stereotypes. No thank you.
Oliver & Company is such a GREAT MOVIE!!! I loved the CAST including their singing and of course the storyline was amazing!!!!
Although this is not a well-known movie, it is undoubtedly one of the best films of Disney. It has a very good story, with moments that makes you laugh and cry, characters and a very good villain. Highly recommend!
This movie sooo underrated. Everyone should watch this movie once in your life.
I think this the weakest of all Disney animations.One o r two good songs doesn't save it.It would be better if the animators stick to the novel rather than make it a ''kids movie''For die hard fans only.
The story had so much potential yet it failed to deliver for me. The characters also seemed shallow and not as well developed as I would have hoped. I used to love this film as a kid but as an adult it doesn't hold up that well. This was Disney's attempt to be hip in the 80s.It's not an unwatchable movie by any means. It's a got a couple songs I really like ('Why Should I Worry' and 'Streets of Gold'). The animation is pretty good (despite Don Bluth movies at the time being better in that department).I'd say if you got little kids I'm sure they will enjoy it. For the adults though, there is so much to be desired.
Ok! I love this film. I love the chara tera, the epic soundtrack and the animation style. The background style reminds me of the 60s era of dinsey films like 101 Dalmatioms. That sketchy, watercoloyr style. The plot is pretty sinpme, but effective. I feel like it's a grest film foe kids and adults alike. Please buy the soundtrack as well as the film, as it may be one of the BEST disney soundtracks of all time.
When I was a little boy this animation replaced my entire Cable TV regimen and Toy Story all together (until the VHS broke and I chose to do something else) . This movie was a fun film to watch. I loved the characters and the drama. But is it well balanced? We'll find out.-PLOT/STORY-
Oliver and company is losely based on the Charles Dicken's novel 'Oliver Twist'. I saw the musical when I was 9 and let me tell you. It is nothing like that. Honestly I could say that knowing Disney they could have easily gone with the watered down version of a British novel. But as lose as it is it still gets the general outline of the novel down. A Kitten named Oliver is out in the large brooding New York City (the most cliche place in film) who gets discovered by a cool talking dog named Dodger. Dodger leads Oliver to a stray pack of dogs who are actually owned by a homeless man on a dock named Fagan. Fagan, is apparently owes money to a scaryass loneshark named Sykes. So the only way to get back money is not by raising it or getting anyone to help but to steal... Now I must stop right there but what is this teaching anyone? Nothing. I cannot tell if this is being ironic or not but teaching kids to steal is not the way okay? What a bare bones lesson. Anyway, Oliver gets adopted by a wealthy little girl who's daddy is gone and he is loved. Sykes discovers this and kidnaps the little girl. Now Fagan and his gang must save her. This leads to a violent chase scene. This leads to one of the most traumatic Disney death's of my childhood right next Mufasa dying (which I didn't care for) but it wasn't Syke's death but rather his two Doberman and I love Doberman. This is graphic for the kids. I mean Gaston's death was just and like no one cared but holy crap dude. 1980's Disney has edge! So it ends up in happiness as the gang forget the climactic chase and eat birthday cake ending up in song and dance and plenty of fourth wall breaks. If that part in the climax wasn't with the 2 dogs death this movie would be a perfect 10. -CHARACTERS-
The characters in Oliver and company are cute and lovable but they are mostly archetypes and stereotypes. 
Oliver- a shy little kitten who must grow to be confident. 
Dodger- The coolest Jack Russle you'll ever see in this side of NYC.
Fagan- Based off Fagan from the original movie. Fagan is a dirty frantic yet caring homeless man. 
Rita- A Saluki personified as a foxy black chick who wants to help Oliver grow.
Penny- A young rich girl who has talent and loves animals. She is the American in this 3 cheese slice of a schmaltzy film. Has daddy issues
Tito- A wise cracking Chihuahua voiced by Cheech Marin. He is the funniest and is better than any actual Chihuahua you'll ever see. 
Georgette- The most stereotypical poodle character you'd probably seen 100 times in any Looney Toons short. Many uppity girls will relate to her. There are forgettable ones likeFrancis- A snobby Bulldog. 
Einstein- A dopey Great Dane And the worst one of all 
Sykes-A bruding protagonist that you'll love to hate. Has the balls to threaten a little girl and a homeless man. A lone shark mafioso who smokes a cigar and has two Dobermans. There are some Cameos you'll see. The characters are stereotypes but still good and likable. -ART/ANIMATION-
 This was before Disney's grand renaissance of the 1990's and it shows. 
The characters aren't realistic, they feel more like out of a Loony Tunes cartoon lacking anatomy in someways and feel too tooned up on some of them but still very cute. But that isn't the problem really, no. The character alone are good. 
What the problem is that the line work feels very sketchy and Xeroxed. But the physics and overall animation make up for this as they are quite detailed. But what's even more unbalanced is that this was the first animated film to ever use cel shaded CGI on automobiles and environments. Now I can forgive this if it was the 1960's and this was rotoscoped like in 101 Dalmatians. But this simply looks out of place. The cars have way too much perspective, physics and fluidity than the 2D characters themselves. It feels video gamey. As if they took 2D sprites and layed them over a 3D backdrop in a Nintendo Gamecube game. Just flickey neon cardboard in an otherwise realistic fluid world.The backgrounds don't try too hard. They are nice pleasent yet sketchy images of New York City set in watercolor. They are filled with product placement which to a negative think makes them think this is just a cashgrab but to me (a positive thinker) it makes it look more grounded in reality. Some locations look more realistic than others but your stupid kid brain can't tell the difference.Overall though, it is a pleasent to look at movie. -MUSIC/VOICE ACTING-
 Since this is a musical. It's going to have to have good music and boy does it deliver. 
 In my opinion, Oliver and company has the best music of all time in a Disney film.
 Hand in hand it has good voice actors. 
 First off you have Billy Joel singing Why Should I Worry. Which is a fun soundtrack filled.
Streets of Gold- Sung by Ruth Pointer as Rita
Huey Luis doing his Once upon a time in New York City which sets the sad mood of Oliver's orphan experience. 
Penny's Good Company sung by someone who no one knows 
With this kind of Talent singing pop songs (better than Zootopia trash By Shakira)
Overall I love it. Lots of other soundtracks to set the mood. The music for some will trigger nostalgia to kids and tweens of that time. But to adults it may not. Because some of them who where in their 20's probably didn't even like those artists of that genre.Oliver and Company's fun can only last son long. But do to it's inconsistent mood, strange take on a classic tale, bad climax, somewhat outdated . It will turn off some viewers and scare little kids. But over all, pretty charming. And that's all I need to say.
Most certainly one of the lesser known entries in Disney's canon and unfortunately one of the most forgettable. A modernisation of Dickens' Oliver Twist, a homeless kitten joins a gang of dogs learning to survive on the rough urban streets of the Big Apple. Doesn't sound like Oliver Twist right? Well, Oliver is a ginger kitten, Fagin looks after the dogs, Dodger is the cool canine and Sykes is a loan shark wanting money back from Fagin. The backbone of the source material is embedded within this animation, which is most of its appeal. It's interesting to see how Disney altered the classic novel to develop a more cutesy interpretation. I do believe it worked. The characters were twisted and processed in order to adapt to the gritty environment surrounding them. New York City has never looked so intimidating, the hand drawn animation style enhances that aesthetic appeal which ultimately makes the city its own character. The first ten minutes illustrates this well as we witness Oliver precariously wandering the overcrowded streets. No dialogue, just the hustle and bustle of daily lives. It pulls you in. The story is well paced, moves extremely briskly and does contain some memorable characters. The voice acting, particularly Billy Joel, were believable and matched the movement of the animation. High energy levels and street-smart dialects. So why is it forgettable? 73 minute runtime. Far too short to create a compelling story involving musical numbers. It's so brisk that it never lets you breathe and take in the story. The occasional emotional scenes just can't deliver the impact it's desiring because we have yet to connect we these characters. Oliver is supposedly the main character, yet I'm fairly certain Georgette has the most screen time (including her own song). 'Georgette and Company' would've been more fitting. Overall, it's a perfectly watchable animation that makes full usage of its environment, but one that can't quite achieve the magic of Disney's precious work.
Oliver (Joey Lawrence) is the last free kitten who gets left behind in the box. He has to find a way to survive in the bustling streets of New York. He joins streetwise dog Dodger (Billy Joel) and his gang of strays. They steal for bum Fagin who owes loan shark Sykes. Jenny Foxworth is a lonely rich girl with absent parents.The story is based on Dickens' Oliver Twist. The animation is inferior Disney. It may be too daunting to animate the streets of New York without looking cheap. It's pre-CGI and leans more towards TV level. There is a vast difference between this and Beauty and the Beast 3 years later. This looks bad by comparison. There are many songs but none of them are catchy enough. The story is a functional adaptation with appealing enough characters. In the end, it's fine for a family film.
After Don Bluth beat Disney financially with An American Tail, the Disney company put more time and effort into their work to compete with Bluth. Alongside the highly ambitious and legendary masterpiece Who Framed Roger Rabbit, the company released a loose adaptation of Oliver Twist in 1988 called Oliver & Company, which ended up being beaten out by The Land Before Time both critically and financially. The following year, the Disney company would actually beat Bluth with The Little Mermaid (and begin the Disney Renaissance), but that's a story for another day. As for what I think of this film...well, it's not by any means bad, but I think I would have liked this more had I grown up with it, because as a whole, this film is just ok albeit kinda forgettable.The aspect about this film I admired the most was the heart, as it is about a cat named Oliver who sticks by a gang of homeless dogs and their master before getting adopted by a rich girl named Jenny Foxworth, who is soon taken away by a lone shark. While the similarities between Charles Dickens' work are rather obvious, the friendship that Oliver obtains with the dog Dodger is genuine enough and it does give the film a heartwarming mood. Admittedly, the characters themselves aren't really that memorable, and the most that sticks out from them are their voice actors or their one personality trait. Oliver is a lonely kitten who wants a family, Dodger is the streetwise mutt, Fagin is the dopey owner who tries to pay ransom because he got into a bad situation with the lone shark Sykes, and the other dogs...honestly I barely remember much about them. The only secondary characters I remember enough and find amusing are Tito and Georgette due to their quirky and aggressive nature and splendid vocal performances by Cheech Marin and Bette Midler. Oh yeah, and Jenny....uh....well, she's likable enough.Another thing that's rather shocking about this film is how aggressive it can be. The film was actually supposed to be even darker and grittier than what we got, but if you ask me, this one of the more gruesome and dark Disney films out there. Without giving too much away, let's just say that whenever the antagonist Sykes and his dobermans are onscreen, it ain't a pretty sight. Then again, this is the same company that gave us the death of Bambi's mom, Lampwick turning into a donkey, and the death of Mufasa, so why am I surprised?To the film's credit, some of the musical numbers are fantastic. Once Upon a Time in New York City (co-written by the legend himself Howard Ashman) is so beautiful and heartbreaking that it even made me cry, Perfect Isn't Easy is delightfully entertaining, and Why Should I Worry is one of the catchiest and downright dynamite musical numbers you'll ever hear in a Disney movie, aided by the wonderful Billy Joel. That being said, they are pretty dated given how much they sound like products of the 1980s, and the other musical numbers like Streets of Gold and Good Company left much to be desired.Lastly, the animation is pretty good, and the animators definitely had fun crafting lovable characters and smooth movements. Also, roughly 10 minutes worth of Cgi was incorporated into the film, and most of the time it's barely noticeable it blends so well. However, I think New York City was better depicted in Madagascar and The Secret Life of Pets, and the constant advertisements don't help much. Not to mention, at times the actual animation looks kinda stilted and cheap, making the film look like if a movie made by Filmation had they been given a higher budget. I know the film's director worked at Hanna Barbara before, but that's no excuse when your film costs $31 million dollars to make....at the House of Mouse no less.To sum it all up, while there are some very enjoyable moments in Oliver & Company, it didn't offer enough for me to call it memorable. While it has its heart in the right place, the animation is decent enough, some characters are amusing in their own right, and half the songs are splendid, the predictable story, bland majority of the cast and dated material keep this film from rising above being decent if nothing special. I can understand why people would be nostalgic for this movie, and if you happen to love this movie with all your heart, that's great. Besides, even if this movie wasn't for me, I'll always cherish Dodger's street savoir faire.
I still find Oliver & Co. enjoyable and cute even though it withers when compared to what followed. To be honest, the setting of a Charles Dickens story, which showcases some literature's's most gruesome characters, in the most groovy 80's environment imaginable is a little silly. Aside from that, it has made the gang of stray dogs and their owner, Fagin, a fun and enjoyable part of the New York setting. The interplay between the poodle Georgette and Tito the Chihuahua was hilarious. That aspect of the movie is also well rounded off in the end of the movie. The songs are actually pretty good. I often catch myself humming them after watching the movie. 'Why Should I Worry' is ridiculously catchy! If you don't hum it for hours after hearing it, something is wrong with you. The songs 'You And Me Together' and 'Once Upon A Time In New York City' are sweet and sincere and deserve more attention.The villain is among the weaker villains and did disappoint. Bill Sykes is known for being one of Dickens' most evil personas in his novels, and he is surprisingly forgettable in this depiction. His canine sidekicks are more memorable. But he gets an awesome chase scene at the climax of the movie. All in all, I think Oliver & Co. is a great movie mostly for kids, but deserves more attention. I think it is often overlooked like many of the 80's Disney movies.
While not one of the big name Disney animated films this is enjoyable enough fare, with some nice voice acting, and a modern (at the time) twist on 'Oliver Twist' by Charles Dickens.It doesn't hold up to modern standards of animation, and looks a little dated now. Also, many of the voice actors (Billy Joel aside) aren't that well known today, so for kids now the fact that Billy Joel is voicing a dog isn't that much of a big deal.It's a decent film, but if you were given the choice of watching this or 'The Lion King' for example, I know which one most people would go for.
'Oliver and Company' doesn't have much in the story department. There's not a lot to these characters beyond trying to guess who's doing their voices, and the subject matter is awfully lightweight.But what it does have is a solid depiction of New York in the '80s. The skyscrapers, the billboards, the grimy feel once you get down to street level . . . throw in some sitcom sax and the city start to really live and breathe.This was a movie I was interested in (but didn't catch) as a kid, and I think I would've liked it a lot better then.6/10
First....I love this Movie Because his name is Oliver is my name too.The voice acting was amazing and showed us what probley goes through a dog and cat mind is and i really love that.Second...Jenny is the Sweetest Girl I have ever seen she would do any thing to find her cat and I mean it.Third....The Poodle Ilove poodles I have poodle and I just love it lol.Sincerely,Oliver Wady
This is my favourite Disney film of all time. It still holds up to my childhood enthusiasm. The characters are extra lovable, courageous and funny. The soundtrack is incredible - score and songs. You just can't help singing along. There are famous singers/actors in the voice cast, including Billy Joel and Bette Midler. They bring great energy to their roles. Oliver is the cutest, but is also feisty and is well able to fit in with his new pack. Georgette is a scene stealer with her vanity and jealousy. The gang are devoted to Fagin, Oliver and each other. They are all enjoyable to watch as they demonstrate their 'street savoir faire.' Sykes and the dobermans appear infrequently, but deliver pure menace. The 2D, hand-drawn animation is marvellous and also features some early computer work. Their decision to shut down this department in favour of full CGI is a real shame. The poster still has pride of place on my wall (and I have toys, books, the CD and an intact mug.) I regret that this film has been over-shadowed by the 90's super successes. The opening is breathtaking and heartbreaking. The whole is a delightful journey that never fails to cheer me up. Just purrfect.
I absolutely enjoy Oliver and Company. It's upsetting that Disney isn't paying it more attention. I get it's not like the book but a kitten as the hero? Jenny Foxworth adopting him? Subway chase? NYC? I'm in! I know not all Disney movies are famous but this era's had a little too much Frozen. This is from a Frozen fan and I feel it's not as hyped up as lots say. Why not revive this one? There's no Oliver and Company merchandise. I can think of several ways to revive it: -Live action remake. -Once upon a Time. -A follow up story(ideally not direct to DVD.) All, in all, I really would like this to get more appreciation! Who's with me?
Oliver and Company is another obscure Disney movie, that, like The Great Mouse Detective before it, can be considered a musical. As the second film in my personal timeline's Disney Renaissance (and officially the final film in Disney's Dark Age), there is actually a lot to see here. I appreciated the characters and songs, and the story was executed well despite seeming very familiar. There are some thrilling and tragic moments (especially at the end), which is my style, but other than that, it was just good. The acting could have been a bit better (Cheech Marin could have sounded a little less stereotypical), but I took the most points off for the animation. While passable for Disney (it beats any of their direct-to-video films), it seems more like a very-well polished TV movie than something for a feature film. I don't know if Disney was trying a new style on their budget, but only a select few moments were ones where the animation effects were, in my opinion, cool. Despite its major flaws, I still enjoyed it and I can recommend it to anyone reading this.
Disney has always been good at providing well-made family entertainment high quality. Oliver & Company is no exception. A fun fast paced adventure which boasts a good voice cast Oliver & Company is the kind of great family entertainment we come to expect from the mouse-house. A modern day retelling of Oliver Twist with an all canine cast this is a fun and exciting movie. Being Disney it works for all ages. The animation is good , the songs are good and the characters are lovable and fun. I highly recommend that any parent show this film to their children. No one does it like Disney ! you will not regret it. It's a movie that the whole family will enjoy. Because when it comes to Disney (especially before 2000)you you can guarantee that a lot of care and skill went into the film. Like the man who started the company Disney always gives (With the exception of those dreadful Disney Channel Original Movies and series and Disney XD original series)a hundred percent !
You know those women, and to a lesser degree men, who, even when they're in their forties or fifties, still try to dress, look and sound like they're still in their twenties. Like they're still relevant and cool and hip. Of course you do. Well, not to be mean, but Oliver & Company is a lot like that. Made in the late 80s, and probably one of the Disney films that show its age the most, it's very heavily tied to the era it was made in. And not just the era, but the city of that era. In this case New York. Now, sometimes that wouldn't be that big of a deal. It'd be like a time capsule. But Disney films are supposed to be timeless, and this is anything but. I still get it, I was born in the 80s, even if barely, but I'm not sure that kids born today will get this when they grow up. It's just so disgustingly 80s.But yeah, that's more of a pet peeve of mine than an outright flaw of the movie, but it has some other problems as well. Like the villain, who has a cool visual design, but has next to no characteristics beyond the fact that he's a loan shark and trains dogs to do his bidding. Or the fact that the main character, Oliver, contributes nothing to the plot, aside from being the MacGuffin. Or even the animation style, which is once again so disgustingly 80s. I hate the way 80s are always made to look.Nevertheless, there's a lot of good stuff as well. The dog characters are all a lot of fun, with the possible exception of Georgette, who I can't make up my mind about. All of them have fun personalities and work well off each other. The film also contains some nice song sequences and is really the first true Disney musical in a while. The Great Mouse Detective had some songs, but not to this degree. Of the songs Why Should I Worry is especially worthy of notice.And yet I can't say that Oliver & Company is a particularly good film. It's certainly not awful and I have some fond memories of it from my childhood. But unlike so many other Disney films, it doesn't hold up when seen as an adult.
I have nostalgic memory of watching the original trailer for 'Oliver and Company' a lot as it was on the British VHS of 'Sleeping Beauty', one of the first videocassettes we ever had. This made me interested in the film as a child, even though I only got to see it many years later. As an adult, however, 'Oliver and Company' seems a bit of an enigma. Made during a period when the whole Disney company was back on the up after a slump in the early to mid 80s, it's surprisingly one of Disney's weakest animated films from the main animation division, greatly paling in comparison to the likes of 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit' and 'The Little Mermaid'. Reimagining the story of 'Oliver Twist' with cats and dogs is a bit of a far-fetched idea, and taking a long, rambling Victorian epic and turning it into a fun-filled adventure with cuddly cats and dogs in New York doesn't really work. The characters are cloying, and the desperate urge to be contemporary results in a film that ends up being truly dated. Some of the songs are fine enough, while others are embarrassing (especially Bette Midler's number 'Perfect Isn't Easy', penned by Barry Manilow). Equally, the film feels very disjointed in tone. It starts off as a comical urban romp but in the last act suddenly turns into a dark story of kidnapping child characters. There may be a happy ending, but overall, the turn of events just seems inappropriate even for a film studio renowned for specialising in mild peril for children. It might be worth a watch if you're a serious Disney aficionado and want to watch all 50 plus animated features, but for anyone else, I wouldn't recommend it.
I don't know when I first saw this movie as kid but it made an impression. Now watching it as an adult I still like it. The songs are amazing and the story while a little short on plot is still very enjoyable.You see the love that the dogs have for each other and for their person. Dodger is a protective and loyal friend that cares for everyone. One of my favorite moments is when Dodger is settling-in for the night and Oliver comes over and curls up next to him. You get in that moment the whole center of this movie.The gang to varying degrees understand why Oliver wants to go with Jenny and not stay on the street. They all have needs and wants that are sometimes at odds with each other. Rita seems to be the most understanding. I think she wishes that she had that chance that is being given to Oliver.When Dodger looses his bandanna in the last fight you see him age and realize that this is all he will know and that he is happy. Yet somehow you feel sad for Dodger and his gang knowing that they are going back to the streets. Even though they have love they are living on the edge.Basically give this movie a chance and decide for your self.
This is an adventurous Disney movie, his 27th full-length animated feature film, that is based on the story of Oliver Twist. Instead of humans, animals are the main characters and each are quite memorable and funny to watch. The adorable kitten Oliver wants to be adopted, but gets himself mixed in with a gang of street-smart dogs, led by the cool-acting Dodger, who try to protect their humble owner Fagin from being victimized by the debt-collecting Sykes.It's one adventurous ride from start to finish, full of energy, bright animation and popular music (I especially enjoyed the hip 'Why Should I Worry,' sung by Billy Joel, and the serene 'Good Company,' sung by Myhanh Tran). The colorful characters and the wild adventures will appeal to a wide audience of adults and children.I did, however, thought the movie went too fast, which left little room for the characters to establish more chemistry and bonding, like the friendship between Oliver and Dodger, and the friendship between Oliver and the girl Jenny. In addition, I thought Georgette, the vain poodle, was hilarious and should have been utilized more.But, overall, it's a fun Disney movie! Grade B-
To be a teen again back in the 1980's.VHS, Breakdance and on.Also this movie a modern New York City version of Oliver Twist.It's literary a twist with talking dogs.Some of the dogs are Dodger with the perfect voice of Billy Joel.The dogs owner are Fagin, and this time the villain drives a big black car.To mention the few merchandises way back then there was posters and read a long books.The movie got a well deserved Golden Globe nomination.An applause to the all star cast, the detailed background animation and the music by J.A.C. Redford.Don't except Pirates of Caribbean this is just some light entertainment with some nice action sequences at times.8/10
This movie has one of the greatest animations.Because the movie came out in 1988 and the animation is really cool.It looks kinda real.The story is sad and good.The songs are awesome!so I gave graphics 10/10,story:10/10,Songs:10/10.I watched this when I was a kid and it was brilliant.I watched it recently and I still think its brilliant!I loved the graphics it looks real kinda.Would I recommend this?for under 5:yes..but there some scenes that can frighten them.5-10:yes.10-15:yes.15-20:yes.20-30:yes.30-40:yes.40-60:Yes.60 plus:Yes.If you were born in 1980s:you will absolutely love this film!If you hate it,Then why?There's no reason to hate it at all!
This is a dogs and cat's retelling of a classic Charles Dicken's. It's a fun children s' movie that I thought was really heartwarming and fun when I watched it as a kid. Although I didn't get the entirety of the plot. The music isn't anything classic that will last and will be repeated over and over again by Disney fans. But it does get the job done and does fit the environment and story. The plot is about a stray orphaned Kitten that is looking for a home to belong in and fits in with other stray dogs and learns about the streets of New York and how to survive from them. I think they could have done a better job of developing in this area, which could have lead to more of the bonding elements. The animation reminded me of a more fluid animated Saturday morning cartoon show. Overall this is a good children's movie that will somewhat stand out in memories.7.4/10
What is wrong with you man? NONE of your so-called criticisms make ANY sense whatsoever! It's NOT Fago, it's Fagin! Pronounced FAYGIN! NOT pronounced Fag-o! I mean come on already! Were you THAT DESPERATE for something to criticize? So you made up an utter lie? Or are you seriously that stupid? If you're that hard of hearing than watch the movie with captions or subtitles! And how can anyone NOT love the songs in this? The very first song is my absolute favorite song of all time! And then there's this line: 'The frightening scene with the kitten in the box, nearly getting sucked down the storm drain, then waking up on a car tire that's about to squish him. The sausage salesman with the scary face. The big mafia-looking guy chasing the hobo...' Um, really? That's the best you can come up with? If you REALLY want a scary face why don't you watch the part in Pinocchio when The Coachman says that 'they (the boys) never come back...AS BOYS!' Now THAT was a scary face. This is nothing. As for the rest, well I mean if the opening events had never happened then how would the plot be set in motion? Yeah he almost drowned, but that's part of the plot? Remember in Finding Nemo, Dory says to Marlin (about him saying he'd never let anything happen to Nemo), 'That's a funny thing to promise. I mean, if you never let anything happen to him, then nothing would ever happen to him.' It's so true. And the tire was the only safe place at the time to sleep under, I mean, the box already was washed down the drain, and he was chased by three rabid dogs. OK, I do have a MINOR nitpick about that part. In the scene right when Oliver sees the three dogs, if you look closely you'll notice one of the dogs only has one eye. What's up with that? Was he born that way, did he lose his other eye, or did the animators simply screw up? I'm not sure. But it's barely even noticeable. The only reason I noticed was because I WAS paying close attention when I watched the Danish with English translations version of the song. After that, I re-watched my Blu-ray copy and looked to see if they had corrected it for the 25th Anniversary but it's still there. By the way, the lyrics to the song are very deep in the European French version. They contain lyrics like 'So Oliver buck up. Go out on the street, don't be afraid. There are people like you, who laugh are who cry. We all have the right, to live and to dream sometimes. There was a time in New City.' The original version's lyrics in that part go 'So Oliver, don't be scared. Though yesterday, no one cared. They're getting your place prepared, where you wanna be. Keep your dream alive, dreamin' is still how the strong survive. Once Upon a Time in New York City.' The second to last line in the original version was also referenced in an episode of Liv and Maddie entitled Moms-a-Rooney. Maddie says at one point in the episode to Karen 'You keep this dream alive!'I'm also working on making my own version of Oliver & Company called Gordy & Company. Here's the cast: Gordy as Oliver, Adult Tod (The Fox and the Hound) as Dodger, Fern Arable (Charlotte's Web) as Jenny, Baloo (The Jungle Book) as Fagin, Dinky the Finch (The Fox and the Hound) as Tito, Trina Vega (Victorious) as Georgette, Shere Khan (The Jungle Book) as Sykes, Boomer the Woodpecker (The Fox and the Hound) as Einstein, Benson the Gumball Machine (Regular Show) as Francis, Vixey (The Fox and the Hound) as Rita, Winston as Himself, Brutus and Nero (The Rescuers) as Roscoe and De Soto, and Old Louie as Himself.
I had seen the video trailer for this Disney cartoon movie many times, and as time went by I had found out more bits and pieces about it, such as the voice cast and premise, but it is odd I never watched it as a child, I wasn't going to miss my opportunity when it came. Basically it is the famous Charles Dickens story of Oliver Twist, with a twist, cats and dogs, and only a few humans, play the central roles, the plot is a little altered but pretty much the same, and it is set in modern day 1980's New York City. Little orphaned kitten Oliver (Joseph 'Joey' Lawrence) is the only one of a litter not to be taken by passers by, and winds up alone in the Big Apple, but after being tricked to assisting a laid back streetwise Jack Russell Terrier dog named Dodger (Billy Joel) steal a string of sausages from a hot dog stand Oliver is taken in by the dog's gang. The Dodger is part of a small gang of dog pickpockets, and their leader is human pickpocket Fagin (Dom DeLuise), the other dogs friends are Tito the Chihuahua (Richard 'Cheech' Marin), Einstein the Great Dane (Richard Mulligan), Rita the Saluki (Sheryl Lee Ralph) and Francis the Bulldog (Roscoe Lee Browne). The kitten joins the gang, they are selling shoddy good and stealing money and valuable stuff so that Fagin can pay back ruthless shipyard agent and loan shark Sykes (Robert Loggia), during one particular trip however Oliver gets caught in a limousine by it's passenger, little girl Jenny Foxworth (Natalie Gregory), and butler Winston (William Glover). Jenny's rich parents are away travelling the world, so she is allowed to adopt the lonely kitten, but his presence enrages and caused jealousy from family pompous and pampered poodle Georgette (Bette Midler), until Dodger and the gang eventually find them, and take him from the house. Oliver explains he was happy to be treated kindly and have a real home, Dodger feels disheartened and lets him leave, but Fagin hears the kitten has been taken in by someone rich, he comes up with the idea to ransom him so that his owner will pay a large amount for his return, he tells this plan to Sykes as well. Jenny finds the ransom note and follows the instructions, taking Georgette with her, Fagin realises the owner is an innocent little girl and his conscience takes over, but as he gives her kitten back freely Sykes comes out of the shadows and kidnaps the girl to ransom her, Dodger and the gang chase after the villain, until Sykes is defeated by a train collision on the Brooklyn Bridge. In the end Oliver is reunited happily with Jenny, she celebrates her birthday with the animals, Fagin and Winston, the butler tells the girl the news that her parents are returning home from Rome the following day, Oliver chooses to stay in his new home, but promises to stay in touch with Dodger and the rest of the gang. Also starring Taurean Blacque as Roscoe and Carl Weintraub as Desoto. Joel is cool as the singing dog who knows all the tricks of the trade, Midler is great singing and being the spoilt but hard to resist bitch, but for me the best wisecracks and best inimitable performance was from Cheech, his brash tones and urban dialogue made his character the most fun. As for the film itself, the story is told as well as you would expect for a revamping of a classic, and most of the songs are catchy and snappy enough, I agree compared to other Disney films it doesn't have quite the same charm, but if your looking for a cartoon romp for all the family this is a very likable animated musical comedy drama. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Song for 'Why Should I Worry?'. Good!
I first purchased this as a present back in 1997(16 years ago)on VHS and to this day I still watch this movie. From the beginning I literally shed an odd tear for the movie's main charcther Oliver(voiced by Joey Lawrence when he was a kid)who is an orphan kitten that was looking for a good home,but nobody wanted him AT ALL. So enter Dodger(voiced by singer Billy Joel)who is a streetwise dog,that looks after Oliver along with his other mutt friends including a irritating dog,a dog that wants to be an actor,a goofy dog and a female dog (who I'm really not kidding here has EYE SHADOW!!). Meanwhile later on in the movie we meet another girl called Jenny who finds Oliver tangled up in wires as Oliver was teaming up with the irritating dog who later has a thing for a poodle(voiced by another singer Bette Midler) that belongs to Jenny.But who will Oliver choose; Dodger the dog and his owner Fagin(voiced by Dom Deluise) and the other mutts or Jenny the sweet and innocent red head that you cannot help but love?Bottom line I loved this movie since I was a child and to this day I still have it on VHS all the time and it never fails to bring a tear in my eye(yes you gotta be a cynical moron not to cry over this movie).The songs were great especially Billy Joel's song Why Should I Worry and the other song In Good Company sung by the little girl Jenny.This movie was witty,cute,sad,entertaining and a feel good movie.For that I'm giving it an 8 out of 10. A 10 is too much as the movie can be a bit silly with the whole talking animals but if your an animal lover and you love 101 Dalmatians,Lady & The Tramp then check it out.
Sometimes the movies you see as a child don't hold up so well when you experience them again as an adult. 'The Rescuers' and 'Atlantis: The Lost Empire' still carry the same magic they did when I first saw them. I've also discovered a few I didn't see the first time around which now hold a special place in my heart, with 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame' immediately coming to mind. Unfortunately, there are also a couple that lose their luster when viewed again through older eyes, like 'The Sword in the Stone.' I'll be adding 'Oliver and Company' to the last category.A wayward kitten named Oliver spends his days and nights wandering the streets of New York City. While searching for food, he runs into a dog named Dodger who spends his days scrounging up food for his misfit family of stray dogs and assisting their homeless human friend Fagin make ends meet. Just as Oliver joins the canine clan, he is adopted by a girl named Penny. Danger materializes in the form of a pack of Dobermans that Penny's parents. They take a disliking to Oliver and plan to remove the threat to their home any way they can.'Oliver and Company' is nothing more than a water-downed version of 'Oliver Twist' that injects the sounds of Billy Joel, Bette Midler, and Broadway musicals together into one intolerable experience. Replace the humans in Charles Dickens' classic novel with animals and you have a recipe for annoyance. It's 74 minutes of sheer pain and agony for parents to endure while their children smile and giggle at the cuteness unfolding on screen.One of the biggest problems with 'Oliver and Company' is they dumb down the main villain of the book. The character of Fagin from Dickens' novel is a perfect example of evil and cruelty. Disney makes him a sympathetic bumbling bad guy with a good heart in this animated version.
Franticly searching round for movies in my possession from 1988 that I could watch for a poll that was being held on IMDb's Classic Film board for the best films of 1988,I was thrilled to stumble upon a Disney title that I have been interested in watching since my childhood,which led to me excitingly getting ready to see Disney's very distinctive sounding take on Charles Dickens classic tale.The plot:Finding himself to be the only kitten left in a 'for sale box' that has been left unattended,Oliver decides to break out of the box,and begin a search round the streets of New York for any crumbs of food.Feeling hopeful that his starvation is about to end when he notices a human chef cooking a pile of juicy hot dogs,Oliver's hopes are quickly dashed,when the chef kicks Oliver to the side of the road.Accepting defeat from the chef,Oliver turns his back from the hot dog's,puts his tail between his legs,and begins his long search for food again.Stooped in his tracks,Oliver is met by the unexpected sight of a dog called Dodger,who due to seeing how desperate Oliver is for food,kindly offers to team up,and use his street smarts to help Oliver steal some hot dogs from the chef.Cheeful about getting an offer of help for the first time in his life,Oliver quickly agrees to Dodger's plans.Outwitting the chef from all angles,Oliver and Dodger grab as many hot dogs as they can hold,and quickly set off to a near by dark alleyway,where they will both be able to enjoy their winnings in hiding.Feeling wonderful about finally having some food to eat,and also being part of a team,Oliver is caught completely by surprise,when Dodger tells him that he is keeping the hot dogs all for himself,and that the only reason he worked with Oliver,was to give 'the kid' a street education.Determinded to get a piece of the hot dogs,Oliver decides to carefully follow Dodger,who Oliver soon discovers is actually a member of a back ally street gang.View on the film:Made at a key time in the studio's history,where Disney was just starting to leave its fiscal 'dark age' behind,the 23 writer-written screenplay (not including Dickens name!) struggles on making the relationship between Oliver,Dodger's gang and the human's not feel like it has been created on a assembly line,with the trim 70 minute running time not allowing the writer's to give each of the character's their moment to shine,which would have allowed this extremely distinctive adaptation to really sparkle.Whilst the screenplay of the movie sadly fails to become that energetic,director George Scribner, (who was originally meant to co- direct the film with Peter Young,who sadly died age 37 just before filming was to begin) gives the film a stylish appearance,with the smooth character animation being contrasted by an eye catching,oil painted 'rotten apple' New York City backdrop,and some early use of well handled CGI effects.Along with Scribner's directing,the voice cast also make sure to give the movie a loud yelp,with the brilliant Billy Joel being an absolute howl as the streetwise dodger,and Joseph Lawrence also giving the movie some much needed heart,as the cute,but never sickly sweet,fur ball Oliver,which leads to Dodger's gang being one that is deeply flawed,but still a great deal of fun to be a part of.
I didn't hear about this film until around 1996/1997 when it was heavily publicised in the UK, which made me think it initially came out at around that time. When I found out that this film originally came out in 1988, I was surprised but wasn't disappointed since my sister and I loved this film as children and as young women (I'm 26 and my sister's 22) we still love it to this day.Although the animation is linear and quite flat (which is present in other Disney films such as 'The Jungle Book' and 'The Rescuers'), the lip-sync on the human and animal characters is detailed as well as their facial expressions, despite the absence of tears falling from Jenny's eyes when she confronts Fagin about Oliver being 'kidnapped.' The most positive aspects of this film are its swift pace (particularly during the climax where Sykes and his Dobermans chase Fagin, Jenny and the other animals down the subway track); the talented and relatively well-known voice cast including Billy Joel (Dodger), Bette Midler (Georgette) and Cheech Marin (Tito) of 'Cheech and Chong' fame; the background designs (especially the bird's-eye views of New York City and Central Park); and the songs (the ever-so-catchy 'Why Should I Worry?' and the sweet 'Good Company' are standouts). Jenny and Oliver are sweet while Georgette is beautiful and Tito is comical, although I would like to have seen Jenny reunite with her parents and show them Oliver.As well as the 1968 musical 'Oliver!' this is one of my favourite adaptations of the classic Charles Dickens novel and also one of the most underrated films I've ever seen. 9/10.
This probably one of the most underrated animated films ever made. I mean, even when it isn't at the same level than masterpieces like 'The Lion King', in my opinion it certainly deserves much more love and recognition from the viewers.'Oliver & Company' not only has great animation, but also has a great cast of very likable characters which are more than enough to make this movie a highly enjoyable experience from beginning to end. The songs were quite catchy too.In many ways, this had some of the best ingredients of the classic Disney formula, and yet, the audience doesn't seem to like this as much as other Disney films that came later (Like 'The Beauty and the Beast', 'Aladdin', and, of course, 'The Lion King') Personally, I think it had all the ingredients to be a nice and entertaining film for the whole family.8.5/10
Oliver & Company isn't a great Disney movie, but if you ask me, it isn't that bad of a movie either. The animation is really good, the colors are bright and cheerful, the atmosphere is upbeat, and there are many cute and pleasant moments scattered throughout the film. What knocks the movie down from being a spot-on hit is that the story is a little uneven and doesn't go into as much detail as it could've gone into; that, and a lot of the characters on the side are just sort of there. But Oliver the kitten is cute and endearing enough, Billy Joel is pretty enjoyable as Dodger, Jenny is a cute little girl, and the characters voiced by Dom DeLuise (Fagin), Cheech Marin (Tito the chihuahua), and Bette Midler (Georgette the poodle) have some funny lines here and there. The songs are also pretty good, with 'Why Should I Worry?' by Billy Joel and 'Once Upon a Time in New York City' by Huey Lewis being the best. Overall, Oliver & Company isn't an astounding, remarkable Disney masterpiece that will cater to every audience, but it's fine for children. If you're older, you might like the movie if you typically enjoy any Disney animation as long as it has some fun and charm to it, but if you're a little more discerning/don't have much of a stomach for cuteness, it probably wouldn't be your kind of movie.
This movie has an unmistakable 1980s vibe that gives it a certain charm. Viewers familiar with 'Oliver Twist' will find it interesting how Dickens's story is adapted around dogs and their owners in modern-day New York City.Billy Joel impresses as the voice of Dodger, a mutt with New York attitude. He's joined in the cast by Cheech Marin, Bette Midler, and Dom DeLuise (as a derelict Fagin).The best character, in my mind, is the city itself. This is definitely a New York City movie, tapping into the city's personality and capturing many of the landmarks in the animation.The movie has a visual aesthetic that is not quite like the style of other Disney films, which is kind of cool. There's some great character animation, such as with the imposing villain Sykes (Robert Loggia). CGI framework is used effectively throughout the film to animate cars and things.OLIVER & COMPANY is definitely a product of its time: the late 1980s. The movie is dated by the clothing worn by the humans, the models of the cars, the music (smooth and synthesizery, with the main title song sung by Huey Lewis), the gritty urban look, and even the character designs (see the hot dog vendor or the hairspray-loving canine Rita).In a superficial way, OLIVER & COMPANY reminds me of THE RESCUERS. Both have a unique aesthetic 'feel' that strays from the classic Disney style and seems to capture the sensibilities of the times. OLIVER is as quintessentially 1988 as THE RESCUERS is 1977. (Both films also portray contemporary New York City, involve animals helping a cute little girl, and explore some dark and emotional territory.) OLIVER & COMPANY is dated, but gloriously so.The next animated film released by Disney would be THE LITTLE MERMAID (1989), which launched the company's 1990s renaissance of timeless masterpieces, shaped by Alan Menken's Broadway-influenced musical direction. It's interesting to see the quaint, contemporary style of OLIVER, knowing that Disney would soon go off in a different direction.With no nostalgic ties to this film, I can say that it's a decent flick, although it wouldn't crack even my top 20 Disney movies. Love the NYC stuff. Joel's 'Why Should I Worry?' is a musical highlight. The story has a surprising emotional impact and the climax is both dark and exciting.
Oliver and Company gets a lot of unnecessary criticism as critics do not seem to like this film much. For me the story is not the best it could be but the animation and music in the film is very good, especially 'Why should I worry?' which is my favourite Disney song. Like the Hunchback of Notre Dame, I don't think this was an easy film to adapt but I think Disney did well with a vibrant film with good animation and music and characters that are all appealing and funny. If it were not for the story being slightly lacking I would give the film 10/10 but it is my regret that I must give it 9/10. Still my personal favourite Disney film though. :)
This is the best movie ever I know this cause when I was just a little kid I watched everyday on the week son I knew the lines at a young age and yes I loved Dodger but everyone was awesome in that movie.A kitten hanging out with dogs now that is touching real life there I have seen kittens hang out it dogs all the time when I film my versions of the movie but nothing comes close to this master piece.Not only is it great movie but it also plucks the heart strings if you can me drift real right there.It beats out Godzilla for my all time favorite movie I mean BILLY JOEL was in it the single greatest artist playing the single greatest character not even in the big name movie do u get this kind of show this movie deserved more awards like best picture of all time none can compare.
Truth be told, Oliver & Company isn't one of Walt Disney Studio's most compelling titles, but it's still plenty of fun. It has a wonderful soundtrack featuring great talents such as Billy Joel, Bette Midler, Huey Lewis, and Ruth Pointer. All of the musical numbers in the film are well-staged, nicely animated, and have fun tunes to carry them along. 'Why Should I Worry?', Billy Joel's song and the film's show-stopper of sorts, is the most popular. While I like that song a lot, my personal favorites are 'Once Upon a Time in New York City', the opening song sung by Huey Lewis, and 'Perfect Isn't Easy', Bette Milder's song to go along with the character she voices: Georgette, a spoiled poodle.The story itself isn't quite as strong as it could've been (which is why I award the movie an eight as opposed to a nine or a ten), but it still offers a lot of sweet, charming, heart-filled, and suspenseful moments. The characters also aren't *all* the way there, but they're still good as they are, and their voice actors do their jobs well. Each character has traits that make them appealing, even if they aren't the strongest characters in the Disney canon.I'll end by saying that Oliver & Company is a very enjoyable Disney feature. Children will certainly be entertained by it, especially if they love cats, dogs, and fun musical numbers. Adults can enjoy it too if they appreciate the worlds of animation and Disney enough. Because of the film's level of fun and charm, I give it an eight. If the story and characters had been even better, I would've given it a nine or a ten.
I remember watching this movie when i was a little girl i loved it (L) it was unique, fun, and the soundtrack was great me and my sister would always sing 'why should i worry' every timeSo, i don't know why i wanted to start watching my childhood movies again so i started with 'oliver and company'. And i still love it Disney should make more movies like this Great soundtrack, fun, with a moral in the ending I give 10 to this movie cause it made me want to watch it over and over againPeople compare this movie with 'All dogs go to heaven' in my opinion I liked 'Oliver and company' better because of the soundtrack and it had more action The characters are funny, especially the little chihuahuaKids of this generation should watch this kind of movies instead I bet they will love it
At the time, I didn't know that this film is supposed to be loosely based on Oliver Twist, but this take on it puts the twist in Oliver Twist. And I remembered that this is another Disney animated flick that didn't see the light of day on VHS (or any other home media, for that matter) for almost a decade. I didn't see the original theatrical release, but I caught the re- release. And I loved it. I love how this is one of the few movies of which the studio/company made it semi-adaptation/semi-original. One of the things I love about it is the song 'Why Should I Worry', among others featured in this, which is one of my favorite Disney tunes. I find the set-up of this version taking place in then modern times, which made up the same era that this was made (late 1980s) interesting, possibly, simply because it was interesting that something different was done. There were even some real world ads featured on billboards that made it into this and were referenced. And the fact that the main cast are dogs and a kitten.The Oliver in this remake is a tabby kitten who is the last in a box of abandoned kittens to be eventually adopted. The first dog he meets is the streetwise Dodger, who attempts to lose him after dropping their brief partnership. Oliver follows him to an old barge, which is his home, as well as the other dogs (Francis, Einstein, Rita and Tito) and their owner (Fagin)'s home. Oliver only stays with them briefly, as Fagin is deep in debt to a loan shark dealer named Sykes, who warns him he has three days to come up with the money he owes him or else face the consequences. When Fagin and the pets head out the next day, Oliver is soon discovered by a girl named Jenny, who wants to adopt him and he's taken into her home. After the other dogs come to what they thought was his aid, Oliver misses her and his new home, and wants to go back there. Dodger bitterly lets him do as he requests but before Oliver can return, Fagin finds him and decides to use him as ransom, as a desperate attempt to make the amount of money he needs to pay off Sykes. But once he finds out that it's Jenny who's looking for the tabby with her poodle, Georgette, he decides to do the right thing and give him back to her. Suddenly, there's trouble when Sykes arrives and kidnaps Jenny after learning that she comes from a wealthy family. So it's up to the dogs to come to her salvation. How will they ever manage to succeed in the rescue and will they come through for her?Not only did I see this, but I had the Disney read-along and the book adaptation as part of the Disney Classics Series by Mouse Works Books. Again, what I love about this are the aforementioned reasons above. This is one of the Disney features that are the closest to doing something fully original (other than Atlantis: The Lost Empire, Lilo & Stitch, Brother Bear and Home On The Range). The first song included in this that I mentioned is my favorite is one reason why all who haven't seen it should check it out when they can. That's a great part of the soundtrack and the best.
This was a very interesting Disney classic as it's story was the usual one with a bad guy, yet it was funny at the same time. The cat who was with a pack of dogs, trying to fit in. Ended up at a rich person's house and the little girl there loved him and he ends up having to decide which side to be with. Plus there's the evil guy who's funny and I liked how stereotypical he was. Then there's just the general comical story and jokes.I was impressed with the songs, but felt that near the end the summary and ending was a bit rushed, almost not complete as if it were missing something. We never did get to see the parents of the girl and their reaction, etc.But all in all it was a good movie. 8/10.
I've read lots of negative reviews of Oliver and Company and, 10 years ago, I'd have agreed. I didn't like this movie when I was a kid. The story was confusing and I really didn't understand it completely. I watched it again at age 21 and, after a, well okay, kind of weak beginning I began to dread having to sit through it all. But I was surprised to find myself really interested in the story and following it completely as the movie unfolded.I don't think this movie is as good for kids as Disney's usual fare because the story is a little confusing and could go over their heads. But it's still a good and solid effort on Disney's part. I enjoy the music and the characters are very entertaining. The actors sound like they're having a really good time recording the voices too.Is this a masterpiece? Well, no. But it deserves a lot more credit. It's fun and family friendly and it is certainly entertaining enough for adults too. I'm going to give it a 7/10 because it's not perfect but it's still good.
As much as I loved Oliver and Company in my youth, and defended it to the death when I found out that it wasn't regarded that well, it breaks my heart now to realize what a lackluster movie this really is. The visuals really drew my attention, seeing as though they were completely awful looking. It is as if the Big Apple had a watercolor explosion. The story still seems more interesting than presented, a New York Oliver Twist with classic Disney animals, but the only redeeming part of it was Billy Joel's Dodger character. Being a lifelong fan of the Piano Man, it's always entertaining to see him enjoy being a dog jumping off cars and singing about the carefree life. The only points I can give for nostalgia is 1 star. 1/10 Truly a disappointment, could have been better.
Oliver and Company is a film you'll either find completely adorable or horribly bland. I'm not too taken by it, but I'd be a liar to say it wasn't entertaining or cute.The story involves a kitten named Oliver, all alone on the chaotic and ruthless streets of New York City. He meets a street smart dog named Dodger, and is eventually adopted by him and his gang of stray dogs, who live with a clumsy but good-hearted homeless man named Fagin. Fagin's in a tight spot: he owes money to Sykes, a merciless crime boss, and only has three days to rake up the debt or else. While helping Fagin and his new friends to get some money on the streets, Oliver is picked up by Jenny, a wealthy but lonely girl. They become close immediately, and all seems well until Dodger and his gang 'rescue' him from his new companion. However, this turns out to be a blessing for Fagin, who decides to take advantage of the situation to get money out of it.The animation is so-so. There are a lot of early CG effects which haven't aged well at all, jarring with the rest of the film when they show up. The backgrounds are nice and reminiscent of a children's book illustration, and they really help give the film that necessary urban atmosphere. The music, while not classic status, is pretty good, even if you won't be humming it later.Dodger is easily the most memorable character in the movie. He's cool, has a catchy song ('Why Should I Worry'), has an awesome voice from Billy Joel though not in the ranks of characters like Jiminy Cricket or Ariel, he dominates every scene he's in. The rest of the cast is a bit of a mixed bag. Oliver is cute, but has little personality, making it hard for him to carry the film. The same applies to Jenny, whose only personality trait is her sweetness. The other dogs in Dodger's gang are pretty forgettable too (except for the obnoxious Tito, who I wanted to strangle five seconds after he opened his mouth). Fagin is a little better; you really feel sorry for him and his character animation is entertaining to watch. The villain Sykes is threatening, but, like many of the other characters, he doesn't leave much of an impression once the film ends.Despite my rather low rating, I don't consider Oliver and Company to be a horrible film. I won't deny it has its moments, but overall it's just very average.5/10
ooky. if you can't at least warm up to 'oliver & Co' you're a hard nut to crack. i'm sorry but this doggie day Disney romp is absolutely irresistible in my opinion, and a perfect example of how underrated the Disney hand drawn animated features were in the 80's and how expertly they carried the 'torch' from old school Disney artist to the new school animators.i'm ooky sorry babies, 'All Dogs Go to Heaven' is a cute film but in terms of animation, 'Oliver' knocks 'All Dogs' right out of the ring. for one thing the dogs here look more like actual dogs than the rubber-hose designs of the 'All Dogs' mutts. the animated backgrounds of New York city are also outstanding and drawn with more distinction than the backgrounds in 'All Dogs'.everything in 'Oliver' is all-around better than 'All Dogs'. the music is better and the vocal performances are much better. you can hardly go wrong with the likes of Richard Mulligan, Bette Midler and Dom Deluise doing the vocals. Billy Joel is also excellent here and very accomplished as a actor, it makes you wonder why he didn't get more acting roles after this.also fans of Joey Lawrence and the super Natalie Gregory will be pleased to find them doing the voices of little 'Oliver' and the little girl. Lawrence was only nine years old at the time.the only 'problem' i have with this film, and it's not really a 'problem' of quality, but i sometimes wonder if Cheech Marin is really very acceptable for a family film and a Disney film at that. i'm sure Walt Disney would have hated Cheechie and found him to be a very questionable reprobate. those concerns aside, Cheech Marin's Tito is hilarious and one of the most memorable characters in the movie. and i don't think Tito would have been as cute and funny with anyone but Marin doing the voice here. i love it when Tito is startled and runs around screaming 'gang war! gang war!'. high-larry-us.it is also very sad to note that the New York Twin Towers are featured prominently here in many scenes. a shocking reminder of how the New York city skyline has changed since the 80's.this review is dedicated to the memory of the Twin Towers and the horrible waste of human life on 9/11.-james johnston 5/2/011
After almost never seeing it my whole life, I ended up really liking it! The entrance into the film is so kindling and awakening, we get a majestic view of New York City and then it slowly pans in... at that point, I knew I was going to see a good movie!It's a like Disney version of Oliver Twist with an anthropomorphic mix. On the harsh municipal streets of New York we meet Oliver the kitten (voiced by Joey Lawrence), a very different star in Disney; Oliver soon finds himself on the streets in trouble and alone, but a much unexpected fellow comes to his aid, Dodger the street mongrel. Oliver soon meets the true parental guardian he always wished for, Penny.The characters in general are very fascinating. As I watch a film I can usually get in the movie, and Oliver is no exception. I almost feel like I have to be the surrogate big brother for Oliver, he's an irresistibly adorable orange kitten with those big captivating eyes and chuffy mouth, but has a great sense of dignity too, a kid who can survive the streets of an uncaring society (as we see when he first encounters Dodger). I really like Dodger for some reason, he has that strutting machismo of a rough skinned archetype, but we soon see that he harbors that soft- heart of a big brother for Oliver. Dodger's homeys are a very colorful team of dogs. Tito (Cheech Marin), he's a gag, with his Latino flare and peppy personality he almost gives the will-to-go-on to the other member when they are blue. Francis is the refined one, with a daunting appearance; you'll soon see that he is the gentlemen of the group. Einstein (Richard Mulligan) is the strongman with a heart of gold, but but his role is very small, however we see a hidden leadership within him. Rita (Sheryl Lee Ralph) I really like her; she's like Tina Turner in dog form! She seems to a maternal figure to Oliver and has an underlying superiority over everyone, even Dodger. She's the character you wish to be explained, and yet there is no revelation of her mysterious past. Penny is very charming, and a very determined mind, but sometimes I find her a little bit annoying, but through her hardships I really begin to understand her, no one-on-one parental interaction, and very lonely spare time. Oh yes, then there's Georgette (the one and only Bette Midler), The pampered poodle blue-ribbon winning of Penny's household, Georgette is a definite screen-hogger; she is the most aberrant of all the Oliver characters and harbors no redeeming qualities throughout. She scheming and endearing at the same time. Fagin (Dom DeLuise) is the 'keeper' of Dodger's gang, even though he's supposed to funny, I can't help but feel sorry for this guy. I guess he represents the vagabond archetype. Sykes is one sick Disney villain; he's very realistic. The Dockyard crime lord wants every under his control and can't stand mistakes, but bestows dubious mercy dripping with poison. Not only is a physical threat to be reckoned with, those Doberman can instantly sic you with the snap of his fingers. His defeat is very unusual for a Disney villain; it makes this light-hearted film dark and interesting.Like all Disney movies, the voice cast can be respectable or astounding, and for the case of Oliver, this is a rather cool voice cast. Lawrence portrayed a very innocent and even desperate soul for Oliver. Joel did one heck of a job for the macho Dodger, with a strange sly accent. Cheech is the fiery soul of Tito, invigoratingly raspy and even overwhelming. Bette Midler did an astounding job on Georgette's song debut, but I almost felt like Midler's others vocal parts were simmered down.George Scribner directs Oliver and he did a very good job and graces Disney wonderfully, but he made the film very simple, and if you single out this film out from Disney (where is joins wonderfully) and into the world of the great movies (anyone say Shaw-shank?) it can be awfully weak and childish. The film however flows at a great place, and the sad or thought provoking scenes are put together with emotion and conciseness.I love how the animation is incredibly urban and contemporary, conveying the flashiness and grittiness of downtown NY. It's like a moving children's book almost throughout (which is a delight). The character design is brimming with soul and life, every one of the animals like a specific human trapped in dog form, the humans are works of art, but sometimes over done. Some action scenes are not to precise, like when Oliver is climbing frantically over the hot dog man, it's very cartoony there as opposed to the rest of the film's child picture-book quality.I can't expect less from Disney to make original numbers. Not only are the songs jive-provoking, but the score is good too, conveying tenseness and emotion. I absolutely love 'Why Should I Worry' (Dodger's debut song); it fleshes the freedom of the city and freedom of an individual (Dodger namely). 'Street of Gold' is cool, the theme is the notion of survival, and the virtue of social smarts—Ruth Pointer is amazing! 'Perfect isn't Easy' is just good old entertainment, Midler does an amazing job fleshing out that show-tune vanity song. 'Once Upon a Time in New York City' by Huey Lewis this is a beautiful song, it's like the essence of the film, the city is can be a harsh place and this is one story of one individual, an orphan and his acceptance into a strange and new society.It doesn't standout much, but I like it a lot! It is a herald of those that would come; the transcendent Disney Renaissance of 1990's and in a way deserves to be part of those majestic titles!
This particular Disney animated feature, inspired by Charles Dickens' 'Oliver Twist', was originally released when I was only two years old, and I never heard of it until around the time of its 1996 re-release. It seemed like a new film at the time, and I guess it was new to the VHS format when I saw it. I didn't know it was originally released in theatres years before then until I looked it up, which I believe was sometime in the past few years. I saw it at least once in the 1990's, when I was around ten years old, but after over a decade without seeing it, I've finally gotten around to doing so. By this time, I knew 'Oliver & Company' wasn't one of Disney's most popular animated features, but as usual, I thought it was still a good one.A litter of orphaned kittens are purchased on a street in New York City, but sadly, one of them, an orange cat named Oliver, is left behind. This kitten wanders the streets of the city and can't seem to find anyone to interact with until he meets a dog named Dodger. Oliver helps Dodger steal from a hot dog vendor, but the dog then refuses to share the food with him, so the homeless kitten follows the dog back to where he lives. Dodger's home is a barge, where he lives with several other dogs and their poor owner, Fagin. Fagin is in trouble, as he owes a loan shark named Sykes a lot of money, and only has three days to pay it! The next day, Oliver goes with Fagin and his dogs on a mission to try and somehow get enough money for the man to pay off his debt. While they are out on the streets, the kitten is found and adopted by a friendly little girl named Jenny Foxworth, but this may lead to more trouble.This 27th Disney animated feature starts on the streets of New York, showing people buying the kittens. This is not a stunning beginning, but it does get rather moving as we see poor Oliver left behind in the rain. More major characters are introduced along the way, starting with Dodger, voiced by renowned musician Billy Joel. We soon hear him sing, 'Why Should I Worry', a song I remember from my first viewing of the film. Of all the songs contained in 'Oliver & Company', that one might stand out the most. After that, the film soon introduces the rest of the dogs that live on the barge and their owner, Fagin. These are generally likable characters, much like Oliver, and so is Jenny, who first appears a little later in the film. The voice acting is also very good, which helps. As one would expect from a Disney film, there's also humour here. Tito, a Chihuahua voiced by Cheech Marin, can be very funny, and he's certainly not the only one. The plot may not be the greatest ever written, but it's enough to hold one's interest. The animation is also pretty good here, with some nice city backgrounds.Unlike many of the other animated Disney movies made during the 20th Century, this one is certainly not considered one of the classics, and that's understandable. There are definitely a number of better ones from the company. However, while 'Oliver & Company' is nothing TOO special, it's still decent family fare, maybe more for kids, but it still has enough for adult Disney fans. I'm sure quite a few Disney buffs don't like this 1988 release at all, and there are some things which might make it a little different from most of the company's other animations, most notably the songs. These aren't typical Disney musical numbers, and I don't think most of them are among the most memorable, either, but they certainly could be worse. Anyway, while I wouldn't expect this to be one of the best animated movies you've ever seen, it still has my recommendation for those who like this type of film, regardless of age.
The 27th animated Disney 'classic' isn't worthy of the word 'classic'. I can see why many people don't like this. I am not particularly fond of it myself.The film takes place in the present day of its release (the year of 1988). It is one of the most simplistic Disney animated films when it comes to artwork, quality, attention to detail, drawings, plot and (in many cases) characters. The backgrounds and artwork are very poor for Disney's standards.'Oliver & Company' is one of the weakest old Disney cartoons, but still far better than most Disney's cinema of nowadays. On the other hand, when it comes to old Disney films, it's very easy to find much better. My impression on this movie is even more harmed considering it's based on Charles Dickens's acclaimed novel 'Oliver Twist'. I don't know how good or bad is the 1968 film 'Oliver!', which I never watched but I know it's based on Charles Dickens's famous novel.Back to 'Oliver & Company' (which I am reviewing), it has some good things too. For example, the music. 'Once Upon a Time in New York City' (by Huey Lewis) is a touching song and is played in a touching part of the movie. 'Why Should I Worry?' (by Billy Joel) is pretty cool. Jenny's song is pretty.What else is good in this film? Well, it has some likable characters, although I can't say the same on most of them. Starting with the likable characters, Dodger is super cool. He is, as he says, New York's coolest quadruped. Obviously, he is not perfect, but who is? Anyway, he is fun, carefree and charismatic. Billy Joel is the voice of Dodger (both speaking and singing) and he is awesome in both. Oliver is naturally cute, innocent and adorable. Jenny is a very nice rich little girl. She is humble and doesn't have the arrogance characteristic of many rich people. I think that Jenny was somehow inspired on Penny from 'The Rescuers'. I wouldn't be surprised. Even their names are very similar.As for the other characters. Winston isn't a character that I dislike, but he is nothing special. Fagin is a good guy, however so clown-like that he is irritating (although, at the same time, we feel bad for him). Clearly more annoying than Fagin are Tito and Georgette. Tito is so rude and obnoxious and, to make thing worse, he never shuts up - although it's hilarious when he gets electrocuted in that limousine and says the line «Yeah. Well, it's hard to watch anything when you're getting barbecued, man!». As for Georgette, I can't stand her. She is extremely rude, obnoxious, selfish, spoiled, stupid, sarcastic, unbelievably snobbish and arrogant, not to mention annoyingly vain and proud of herself. Good grief!Francis, the bulldog that strongly dislikes to be called Frank and Frankie (as Tito often does to provoke him), isn't a bad chap but he's nothing special either. Sykes is one of the most sinister Disney villains ever. He is like a mafia guy and a real nutcase. He is terrible when it comes to people he lends money but don't return his money. He threats with creepy attitudes and phrases such as «People get hurt» or «Somebody might get hurt». Plus, you can tell he is the type of guy who kills if somebody knocks on his door by mistake. For example, there is a scene which the dogs disguise themselves as a pizza boy and Sykes is ready to attack with a gun and menacingly wondering «Where are those dogs?», which makes me believe he'd do the same if a real pizza boy knocked on his door by mistake. He makes horrifying threats to Jenny such as «Don't cry, little girl. They only eat when I tell them to» (referring to his vicious Dobermans Roscoe and DeSoto). When he snaps his fingers, this is an order for his vicious Dobermans to attack and eat. There is one terrifying scene which he snaps his fingers and they viciously attack Dodger and leave him unconscious. He drives like a maniac, chases after Fagin though New York subway, wrecking his car... he does many scary things. My final note: a 6 out of 10.
Not-so-spectacular animation, a rather shoddy plot and hardly any character development, 'Oliver & Company' is a weak link in the Disney canon. It was a big thing when it hit theaters in 1988, but now, it's either a shoddy film or a nostalgic joy (If you loved it as a kid).'Oliver & Company' takes 'Oliver Twist' and modernizes it to be more hip for the 80s and for animation-hating teens at the time. Likewise, it was big because of the older crowd. The film is more of a training exercise for the young Disney animators, but fortunately, it is a fun film to watch.Seeing Billy Joel doing a voice in an animated film is priceless, and he sings in it too, and the song is actually good (Well, Disney films always have good songs). The rest of the cast was fine. The dialogue is very 80s-esque, but tolerable. The rest of the soundtrack is 80s pop & rock. It's not bad.Flaws include the plot, screenplay, unexciting animation and the fact that the film is dated. This is why it was a flop on its re-release and its debut on video. The animation is not bad, but it's been-there done-that when you put it next to the older Disney films and even a majority of the newer ones. The sames goes for 'The Great Mouse Detective', which fortunately had a lot of redeeming qualities. There is one excellent moment in this film, the use of computer animation for a chaotic subway chase sequence. This is probably the best thing about the film, and it shows ambition in Disney animation. This would lead up to stunning use of computer animation in 'Beauty and the Beast', 'Aladdin' and 'The Lion King'.Otherwise, 'Oliver & Company' one of Disney's weakest animated features. A 7.7 out of 10.
In most respects, this is a pretty standard piece of Disney animation, enjoyable to watch with a lot of fun songs, but not quite reaching the heights of Disney's more famous animated features. Based loosely on Charles Dickens' story 'Oliver Twist' it features the usual assortment of good and evil characters - both human and animal, with Oliver, a cute little kitten, being the requisite cuddly and adorable one of the bunch. Essentially, little Oliver needs a home, which he finds first with a bunch of vagabond dogs who are partnered with a vagabond human, and then with a little girl from a rich family who brings him into her home. Given the type of movie this is, there are perhaps a few too many twists and turns in the story for a child to be able to follow. There's a lot of lessons about the nature of friendship and family to be found here, and, unlike a lot of more recent animated tales, nothing that would serve as a caution about letting your child watch it. Oliver offers the viewer an enjoyable experience - not Disney's best, perhaps, but still fun. 6/10
After almost never seeing it my whole life, I ended up really liking it! The entrance into the film is so kindling and awakening, we get a majestic view of New York City and then it slowly pans in... at that point, I knew I was going to see a good movie!It's a like Disney version of Oliver Twist with an anthropomorphic mix. On the harsh municipal streets of New York we meet Oliver the kitten (voiced by Joey Lawrence), a very different star in Disney; Oliver soon finds himself on the streets in trouble and alone, but a much unexpected fellow comes to his aid, Dodger the street mongrel. Oliver soon meets the true parental guardian he always wished for, Penny.The characters in general are very fascinating. As I watch a film I can usually get in the movie, and Oliver is no exception. I almost feel like I have to be the surrogate big brother for Oliver, he's an irresistibly adorable orange kitten with those big captivating eyes and chuffy mouth, but has a great sense of dignity too, a kid who can survive the streets of an uncaring society (as we see when he first encounters Dodger). I really like Dodger for some reason, he has that strutting machismo of a rough skinned archetype, but we soon see that he harbors that soft-heart of a big brother for Oliver. Dodger's homeys are a very colorful team of dogs. Tito (Cheech Marin), he's a gag, with his Latino flare and peppy personality he almost gives the will-to-go-on to the other member when they are blue. Francis is the refined one, with a daunting appearance; you'll soon see that he is the gentlemen of the group. Einstein (Richard Mulligan) is the strongman with a heart of gold, but but his role is very small, however we see a hidden leadership within him. Rita (Sheryl Lee Ralph) I really like her; she's like Tina Turner in dog form! She seems to a maternal figure to Oliver and has an underlying superiority over everyone, even Dodger. She's the character you wish to be explained, and yet there is no revelation of her mysterious past. Penny is very charming, and a very determined mind, but sometimes I find her a little bit annoying, but through her hardships I really begin to understand her, no one-on-one parental interaction, and very lonely spare time. Oh yes, then there's Georgette (the one and only Bette Midler), The pampered poodle blue-ribbon winning of Penny's household, Georgette is a definite screen-hogger; she is the most aberrant of all the Oliver characters and harbors no redeeming qualities throughout. She scheming and endearing at the same time. Fagin (Dom DeLuise) is the 'keeper' of Dodger's gang, even though he's supposed to funny, I can't help but feel sorry for this guy. I guess he represents the vagabond archetype. Sykes is one sick Disney villain; he's very realistic. The Dockyard crime lord wants every under his control and can't stand mistakes, but bestows dubious mercy dripping with poison. Not only is a physical threat to be reckoned with, those Doberman can instantly sic you with the snap of his fingers. His defeat is very unusual for a Disney villain; it makes this light-hearted film dark and interesting.Like all Disney movies, the voice cast can be respectable or astounding, and for the case of Oliver, this is a rather cool voice cast. Lawrence portrayed a very innocent and even desperate soul for Oliver. Joel did one heck of a job for the macho Dodger, with a strange sly accent. Cheech is the fiery soul of Tito, invigoratingly raspy and even overwhelming. Bette Midler did an astounding job on Georgette's song debut, but I almost felt like Midler's others vocal parts were simmered down.George Scribner directs Oliver and he did a very good job and graces Disney wonderfully, but he made the film very simple, and if you single out this film out from Disney (where is joins wonderfully) and into the world of the great movies (anyone say Shaw-shank?) it can be awfully weak and childish. The film however flows at a great place, and the sad or thought provoking scenes are put together with emotion and conciseness.I love how the animation is incredibly urban and contemporary, conveying the flashiness and grittiness of downtown NY. It's like a moving children's book almost throughout (which is a delight). The character design is brimming with soul and life, every one of the animals like a specific human trapped in dog form, the humans are works of art, but sometimes over done. Some action scenes are not to precise, like when Oliver is climbing frantically over the hot dog man, it's very cartoony there as opposed to the rest of the film's child picture-book quality.I can't expect less from Disney to make original numbers. Not only are the songs jive-provoking, but the score is good too, conveying tenseness and emotion. I absolutely love 'Why Should I Worry' (Dodger's debut song); it fleshes the freedom of the city and freedom of an individual (Dodger namely). 'Street of Gold' is cool, the theme is the notion of survival, and the virtue of social smarts—Ruth Pointer is amazing! 'Perfect isn't Easy' is just good old entertainment, Midler does an amazing job fleshing out that show-tune vanity song. 'Once Upon a Time in New York City' by Huey Lewis this is a beautiful song, it's like the essence of the film, the city is can be a harsh place and this is one story of one individual, an orphan and his acceptance into a strange and new society.It doesn't standout much, but I like it a lot! It is a herald of those that would come; the transcendent Disney Renaissance of 1990's and in a way deserves to be part of those majestic titles!
OK, first things first. I am not sure what Charles Dickens would say if he found his best book 'Oliver Twist' has inspired an animation. I hate to say this, but surprisingly the project worked quite nicely, if a little predictable and uneven at times. The animation isn't bad at all, actually very clean and smooth mostly, and neither is the story, both of which are the redeeming merits of an enjoyable movie like this one. The characters were also well done in general. My favourite was Georgette, what a genius the casting director was to cast Bette Midler. Jenny and Oliver- who was adorable- were appealing also, but Sikes at times was a bit frightening, and Fagin's part was quite poorly written. Now the script was the letdown, very uneven at times, and unintentionally funny, and this marred the well-told narrative. Some of the characters were uninspiredly written, and Tito was a little hard to understand. On a positive note, I loved the songs, especially 'Why Should I worry?' which is delightfully catchy. May I also say that Billy Joel did a great job with Dodger, who was one of the better characters. And it has a wonderful contemporary atmosphere. All in all, an enjoyable and well-told film, that was let down by the script. 8/10. Bethany Cox
Just finish re-watching this movie and I must say I don't regret it. Music is wonderful, we see some of Howard Ashman's work (that would be the seal of the next decade of successes for Disney Animated Films), It really brought me back to the Eighties. So does animation, it's incredible to see how easy is to realize when the movie was made by the techniques used.Characters are very lovely, at the point I swear a few tears in the first scene (I can't help it, I have weakness for homeless animals). Oliver is just too sweet, also liked Georgette a lot, 'Perfect isn't easy' is really very funny and Bette did an outstanding job. Jokes and gags aren't too worked or original but they will grab a smile for sure.We see some first time, but not less quality, CG in this movie, check out the cars; they look like old '3d' computer games... but for the time they were great. Also the structures in the subway sequence.Story shares a lot in common with the Dickens' book with some differences to adapt story in the roles of the characters.In my opinion, the Second Golden Era of Disney should start here, because besides this movie was a success itself, the Little Mermaid (Considered the start for the golden era) wouldn't had the success it had if it wasn't for it's immediate predecessor.A Must for every Disney-liker!!
I remember when I was young I watched this movie over and over again. I still have the VHS of it and I plan on grabbing it and sticking it in my VCR and watching it. The music, the characters, the city life and basically the great action and marks of love, friendship and family are there! And the great use of CGI animation on almost every vehicle in the metropolitan city. The city is faithful and the song talking about it shows you the ways of new york city and sends its message to oliver, the little orange cat and who is the main character of this wonderful movie.What i don't get is why does the film receive an almost mediocre rating? What is wrong with the film to get such a score like that? I see nothing at all wrong with it. It is another Disney movie with something new to keep you watching and the new things i've seen are CGI and really cool music that really suits the late 80's new york. Come on, now! 10/10 and that's truth. i'd hope to see a Disney movie i like to exceed the godfather on the top 250 list. Lets say The Lion King.
Here is a nice little Disney film that is perhaps a little bit underrated and perhaps a little bit quick. It's a short movie that is suitable for all members of a family, containing enough peril and frightening images to keep it from being a film for just the little kiddies. And yet it isn't too terrifying or unsuitable for the aforementioned children. 'Oliver & Company' does rush through pretty quickly. The plot already becomes clear and right to the main point pretty early on in the film. However, it is not without substance or creativity and has some very delightful or in the case of the three villains, dislikable characters. The characters are loosely based off the characters from a Charles Dickens novel called 'Oliver Twist'. I'm not that familiar with it, but I do recognize Dodger as a representation of the Artful Dodger, Sykes from his novel counterpart, and so on and so forth. But based on the one film version of 'Oliver Twist' I've seen, this film is quite different once you get past a few characters and their similar traits.The characters are all well-realized in terms of both animation and the voice talents put behind them. Oliver, the kitten, was voiced by a child about eight years of age, and is therefore the animated cat is very convincing at being both cute and youthful at the same time. Dodger is the artful, cool guy who knows the way things go and never loses his temper. And there's the rest of his gang who follow his commands and advice. They are all under ownership of a poor man named Fagin who lives in a rickety old boat. Fagin is one the most likable of the characters because of his comic relief and how things never seem to go his way. There was one animation flaw I noticed with this character. Sometimes his nose would be pink, and other times flesh-colored without any indication of it changing colors. There are three villains, a mobster-like guy called Sykes and his two dobermans, Roscoe and Desoto. The actor who voiced Sykes provided a chilling, cold, and almost purring kind of voice that made Sykes seem really sadistic. He's not the most frightening Disney villain, probably because of his limited screen time and somewhat underdevelopment. I did like the dobermans and thought they were very well-done as villainous characters because they had little dialogue. It made them less sympathetic since they mostly just growled, barked, and snarled rather than talking. And yet, they had enough lines to make them more like the rest of the characters.Since I am not the biggest fan of Disney movies, I can't really make a big long review of this, since I'm just recently beginning to start watching these old, animated shows again. But I'll just summarize this review up by saying that 'Oliver & Company' is, for me anyway, an okay animated family movie. It's not the best I've seen, not the worst, but worthy of seven stars out of ten.
'Oliver & Company' is about an adorable vagrant kitten called Oliver who gets taken in by a gang of good hearted dogs and their kind hobo owner, Fagin. Oliver is soon taken in by rich girl Jenny and lives the good life, however, Fagin owes money to nasty loan shark Sykes and Jenny is kidnapped by Sykes. The dogs, Oliver and Fagin all set out to get her and it ends in a pretty dark climax. It's a good movie and that's all I can just say about this. It may appeal to boys more than girls but girls will like it nonetheless. It's also a very dark film and may frighten some kids and it deals with adult-ish situations (nothing really sexual though), but still a fun little family flick.
If there's one thing I remember about this movie, it's that I really, really liked it... allow me to explain why.First of all, you gotta love the plot: a clever spin on Oliver Twist, with some excellent voice work... to be honest, I'm surprised that this movie is so underrated.Secondly, the music is rather enjoyable too. I found myself humming 'Streets of Gold' at least two days in a row after seeing this movie again in what seems like 19 years.Most of all, just the overall execution was brilliant; in fact, the only nitpick I have about this movie is that if you've read the Dickens novel, it's a spoiler.Other than that, this is perfect! 9/10
Animated take on 'Oliver Twist' from the Disney Studios, marked by an impressive list of star-voices in the cast but hurt overall by fairly colorless songs and unmemorable characters. These adventures of an orphaned kitten and a streetwise dog are not particularly witty--and the cuteness quickly becomes wearing--but very young children should enjoy it (older kids and adults may start squirming after thirty minutes or so). Relies heavily on the panache of the celebrity performers (including Bette Midler, Billy Joel, Robert Loggia, Richard Mulligan and Cheech Marin) to give the scenario some energy, but the vocal hamming is occasionally irritating. The musical numbers, while nothing marvelous, are at least upbeat, and the finale is good, but this is a long way from even 'The Rescuers'. ** from ****
This was such a great movie!! I just saw it for the first time a little over a week ago and just loved it. I especially loved Oliver because he is so cute, and he reminds me of Simba, my favorite Lion King character. I also loved Tito. One of my favorite parts of this movie is the songs. I like Once Upon a Time in New York City, and Good Company, best. I am planning to learn them on the piano. The opening scene, where Once Upon a Time in New York City plays, makes me cry on the inside. The scene where Jenny sings Good Company is adorable! I am planning to watch every Disney classic possible. I have seen quite a few and loved them all!
You can't lose watching this one! Purely delightful. Disney at it's BEST! Parents will also be highly entertained. Billy Joel songs and all! Witty and funny. An eyeful and an earful! Bette Midler also shines. A parents chance to ENJOY a kiddie movie. This cartoon movie even has a plot! I was thoroughly delighted, and you'll be too. Many stars contributed their talented voices... Billy Joel, Bette Midler, Robert Loggia, Dom DeLuise, Cheech Marin and Joey Lawrence as the voice of Oliver. Don't pass this one up. It was made in the classical GREAT style of Disney. If only the new Disney movies were as good as this 1988 HIT!
Curiously endearing Disney animated feature inspired by 'Oliver Twist', transposing the Dickensian favorite fairly successfully to a modern-day New York setting - with the villainous Bill Sykes as a mobster (flanked by a couple of vicious mastiffs). Stylistically, it lies somewhere between LADY AND THE TRAMP (1955) and the adult-oriented films of Ralph Bakshi (without the sex and violence, naturally); as such, it stands oddly alongside the studio's usual fare from this rather lame era - and its vitality can now be seen to have foreshadowed the renaissance in quality (and critical appraisal) which they witnessed soon after, beginning with THE LITTLE MERMAID (1989). The anthropomorphic characters (which generally swamp the humans - Fagin is very much a good guy here, if still pitiful) are quite nicely fitted to class stereotypes: hence, we get a Hispanic chihauha (with an eye for the ladies) and a posh bulldog, among others, while Dodger is basically an updated version of Tramp and Oliver himself a cute but very brave kitten. The familiar and involved plot is all but jettisoned (especially in its second half) in favor of boisterous action and character comedy, with a bouncy score and rapid pace to match. In the end, it proved surprisingly good - and, at just 74 minutes, short enough not to overstay its welcome.
This movie was a wonderful rendition of how friends can take care of friends. I cried and I laughed throughout. Anyone who has a child should buy and show this movie to their kids. It truly teaches about compassion!Oliver is an adorable kitty with a fate of having been left behind on the streets of New York City. He gets taken in by a funny gang of dogs who 'rescue ' him from the home he desires. Soon, a twist of strange events brings the viewer to the realization that there is true compassion in the world even when it appears untrue.Any New Yprker would agree with the artist's rendition of the city! I will recommend it to all young kids. A true blessing!
I know it sounds weird because this movie was made when I was a child, you'd think I would've seen it at an earlier age. But I never did and my friend had the movie, I was curious and wondering why I never had the chance to see it. But I'm glad that I just got to see this movie, it was so much fun and I just missed the old time animation. It had great music by the awesome Billy Joel and the animals were just so adorable.Basically, Oliver is an orphan kitten the big city of New York and meets a smooth street smart dog, Dodger. When Oliver follows Dodger to his layer of other dogs who are led by a homeless man, Fagin, they decide to keep Oliver. But when Oliver is learning the street smarts, a little girl sees him and takes him home where he gets a nice loving place to stay, not to mention extremely wealthy. But the guys want him back and kidnap him to pay back the mean Mr. Sykes.I thought this was a great introduction of Charles Dicken's immortal classic for the kids. Not to mention that it was clever and witty, the music is memorable and there are some very funny moments that both kids and adults could get a kick out of. Believe me, this movie is good fun, but I'm still trying to find out why I didn't see it sooner.8/10
Oliver and company is sure to leave you howling with delight. Its great message ,everyone needs love, is sure to get threw to your kids with these unlikely heros. A full squad of dogs and a cute lovable cat even a person or two. Its musical numbers will get children movin to the groovin. Everyone I think can appreciate this Disney classic. It is so on the move it is sure to capture and keep attention spans of all levels ,and ages. I t is a movie you will not soon forget ,and you will want to watch it over and over. You will be right there with the characters threw each ,and every turn. I would recommend this movie to anyone.
Disney began to get back on its feet in 1988 (well, theatrically) with 'Oliver and Company,' an animated feature. It's a great movie because it's a dog movie (and a cat one, too, unfortunately), and I love dogs!!!!! Here, a bunch of cool pets go on adventures around New York City; one amazing part is near the end with the huge Olds on the subway tracks, where it got hit by an oncoming train on the Brooklyn Bridge, putting the bad guy away!!!!! And so, the pets live happily ever after. The end!I've seen the re-release in theaters in 1996, and I thought that this was a great film!!!!! The ending scene sure was my favorite scene, indeed.'Oliver and Company' is one of those films that put Disney back on top again! I recommend this to any pet lovers!10/10
OLIVER & COMPANY, in my opinion, is a very touching Disney classic about a special friendship for all ages that will warm your heart. I really loved the things that Oliver (voice of Joey Lawrence) and Jenny (voice of Natalie Gregory) did together. If I were Jenny, I'd care for Oliver myself. I would even do the same kinds of things that they did together. I inititally wanted to cry when nobody wanted him. The music was good, everyone was cast perfectly, and the direction was flawless. My favorite song was 'Why Should I Worry?' In conclusion, I highly recommend this very touching movie about a special friendship for all ages to anyone who hasn't seen it. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with someone close to you, and watch it. I guarantee you you'll thoroughly enjoy it.
Inspired by the timeless Charles Dickens novel , 'Oliver Twist' , Oliver & Company is the thrilling animated classic full of action , friendship , courage , and heart that starts when Oliver , the orphaned kitten , is befriended by Dodger , the cool dog from a New York pack of pickpocket pooches. Soon , Oliver is lovingly adopted by Jenny , a lonely little rich girl , until tough-guy Sykes and his Doberman sidekicks , Desoto and Roscoe , try to keep Jenny and Oliver apart. Now it's up to Oliver, Dodger , and all his colorful , street-smart canine pals to outwit the villains and rescue the girl in an electrifying chase that will leave you breathless!Filled with laughter , loyalty , and great music by Billy Joel , Huey Lewis , and Bette Midler. Oliver and Company is family fun you'll love watching over and over again!9/10
I think this is one of the greatest Disney films ever, yet it does not get much credit. I mean films like, Toy Story, Cinderella, etc, can be seen often on TV. But I've never seen Oliver and Company on TV, have you? I am 13 and originally viewed it at 6. I loved it then and love it more now! I must have watched it about 100,000,000 times!!!! And I got the soundtrack and am playing now as we speak. My fave character is Dodger, the streetwise, quick talking mutt. I used to jump about on my sofa pretending to be him jumping form car to car. Hey? What's cooler than a dog getting around by standing on a car? I always sing-a-long and I am always being told to be quiet as I am singing sooooo loud my parents can't hear the TV!!!! The songs are all stuck in my head with super-strong superglue! I especially like Why Should I worry and Streets of Gold. Dodger and Rita are so cool. I really love this movie and recommend it!!!!!!!
I was left disappointed after watching this film in the cinema when I was nine/ten years of age. I had bugged my parents to see it, as I loved anything that had to do with cats. The cartoon Oliver the kitten looked adorable, orange, with soft, large eyes. The hero could not have been cuter. The sidekick dog Dodger could not have looked more cooler. Even the little girl shared my name, so he film could not appear anymore better to me until I actually saw it. The film was dull and unengaging. The story seemed pointless. Some of the characters were just too annoying, and as a nine or ten-year-old, I was actually bored. I think my mother even resented taking us to watch the film because she was bored too. This was one of the first times that I actually felt disappointed in my childhood. Cute, adorable kitten. Bad film.
Loosely based on 'Oliver Twist', some of the elements are cleverly adapted, but overall it is a bit of a bumpy ride with the rock music soundtrack jarring at times. Although the story is a bit slow to getting work, the film nevertheless seems to find its place after the first half hour. The second half of the film has a number of amusing moments and the songs improve in appropriateness towards the end. The animation is not at all exciting throughout, and it this factor more than anything else that has caused the film to gain a bad reputation. With a degree of silliness, since the film is aimed a children's level, it is not really a great film, and it certainly does not rank among Disney's best animated works. However, I would be inclined to label it as a good film. While some of the changes to the original Dickens story are painful, others are very amusing, and ultimately the film does the job providing adequate entertainment for a little over an hour.
We actually saw this film on the big screen as a family. Our children enjoyed it - I think because I enjoyed it so much. (We own two copies of the VHS). I liked it a lot then and still like it - One of my top ten movies. That my wife and I have seen Billy Joel in Concert in Philly had a lot to do with it. Also, we lived on the East Coast for five years and could identify with the characters. The music is corny enough to be 'cool.' I read somewhere the quote attributed to Cheech Marin something to the effect that 'now I can take my kids to one of my movies.' Dom Delouise is a great character voice (and a fine actor, of course). The casting of Bette Midler as the show dog Poodle was a stroke of genius. The gang of canines each have their own lovable personality - contrasted to the 'bad' Dobermans who do the bidding of the evil Sykes. Who can resist the story of an orphan being rescued by a rich kid whose world-traveling parents make her a defacto orphan. The 'refined' butler shows his crude side and befriends the ruffian Fagin. It's a fun family movie - just over an hour. It can take a downer kind of day and brighten it beyond compare.
I love this film its really cute Joey Lawrence was only about 12 when he did this film so he sounds so adorable. Oliver and Company is just basically a Disney adaptation of oliver Twist, but it's set in new york and the main character is a cat! Anyway!! It's still a really good film and doesn't get the recognition that it should!! It's has some really talented actors in it Like Bette Midler and Billy Joel. And there are some really good musical scenes which i always song along to! (Yes I know its a bit sad But i don't care!!) A really enjoyable film that everyone should see!!!So watch this film i am determined to turn this film into a known Disney classic up there with lion king and Aladin!!!!!!
OK, I've seen this movie for the first time when I was 6 years old... This movie was actually made in 1988, the year I was born I haven't seen it in 11 years, and now I'm 17 I love this movie even more then I did before!The songs are lovely, and the story is really heartwarming!! The dutch version of this movie is just as funny as the English is! My favorite character is Dodger, because he's the 'cool street dog' and Oliver is just cute!!I know I'm a real Disney freak and this movie really belongs to one of my favorites!!!
The people on this site are too kind. This is easily the worst movie Disney made and I am including The Emperor's New Groove in that. I suppose there could be some charm if you are a New Yorker or a big Billy Joel fan, but being neither I found the story to be dull, the songs lackluster and the animation quality reminiscent of a bad after-school special reminding kids to look both ways before crossing the street. As many problems we can lay at Eisner's feet, his turning the studio around from making cartoons like this to LIttle Mermaid and Beauty and the Beast almost makes the last ten years worth it. It's amazing that only a year later every kid was singing Under the Sea when this movie makes you want to stick your head in the sand.
Oliver and Company is a great modern adaptation of Liver Twist. It's got great songs, and great voice-over actors including Dom Deluise, Joey Lawrence, Cheech Marin and Billy Joel. This movie is a great family movie. he only part I didn't like was the opening. That scene still makes me cry even today, when little Oliver is left all alone. And the song, 'Why should I worry?' will always get stuck in my head. Even now I it's in my head. Honestly, how can anyone hate this movie? It's got humor, adventure, talking animals, everything Disney is famous for. Oh, and for those of you who think this is the worst movie ever, think again: No movie is worse than Mulan.
*MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*'Oliver & Company' is a cute Disney film.  I remember seeing it when it was re-released to theaters in 1996 when I was 9 years old.  I loved it and fell in love with Oliver, he was an adorable kitten.  I also loved the songs in this movie.  My favorite part of the movie is when Jenny sings 'You and Me Together' to Oliver.  That part of the movie is so cute.  I also liked the part when all the dogs are singing in the city.  That part is very creative.I suggest that all Disney fans should see this movie, cause you'll love it. I give this movie 10/10 stars.
I just read the previous comment about this being a bad movie and that kind of indirectly hurt my feelings. It's just a nice little movie Disney made for pure entertainment and yes, it is directed toward children. It wasn't intended to be catered toward an adult audience. I also can't see how people can criticize such a nice little movie by picking on the animation and Disney's 'incapabilities.' Disney is awesome and can do whatever they want in a feature. Maybe they wanted to portray it the way they did. Besides, the focus of the movie is the story. And based on that, it's a touching tale. This will always be one of my favorite childhood movies and no criticism from other drippy movie reviewers will ever make me see it any differently.
Still several years from the second golden age of Disney animation of Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast and Aladdin  this is a movie from the transition period, from the first time before Disney animation was barely alive.Listing nine people to retell the story of Oliver Twist this is a movie in need of a clue. It's gritty and ugly and much like the New York its set in before Rudy turned it around. Accurately portraying the city in which it's set is not really a plus here since the gritty style is in contrast to the Disney sweetness that keeps popping up.The songs are merely okay late 80's pop crap from a variety of writers that makes for no unity in the score. This is a film with too many cooks on every level and it shows. Its a perfect example of movie by blender.Its not wholly awful, actually its not bad, but it can be very abrasive to the point you don't want to keep watch it.(I give it 5 out of 10)Whats worse its all sub-Disney in animation to the point it looks like half a dozen bargain animation houses of the period.Let this film be a warning to all of the perils of cartoons by committee and what happens when its done just for the money.
In this late 80s/early 90s animated Disney super animal adaptation of the Oliver Twist story, Oliver (Joey Lawrence) is a kitten in need of hearth, home, family and friends. Although he is initially mocked and patronized by the jaunty dog known as Dodger (Billy Joel), he is later accepted into Dodger's ring of lovable scoundrel thief dogs, who include the typical New Yorker dogs, a Hispanic dog, an older dog, and a Shakespearean dog. Just as Oliver is about to learn the way of the pick pocket, he is snatched up by an adorable little rich girl named Jenny and she adopts him as her playmate pet while her parents are away and the only one watching her is her butler. Jenny's resident dog, Georgette, a well bred prize winner, doesn't take well to the little stray cat being in her home. Then Fagan, Dodger's master, who was already in deep trouble with the local gang lord, gets into even worse trouble and it's up to Oliver & Company to save him in what has to be one of the most intense and violent climaxes ever featured in a children's film.
Animation is very much of its time, and so is the music. That doesn't mean you won't like it, because personally I thought this film was quite a mild riot. If you happen upon it, give it a look.
The Little Mermaid is a fun, classic movie! However, since I've been rewatching all the Princess movies, I've noticed that this one is the weakest so far. It's music is catchy and the animation is gorgeous, but the story felt weak. The best part was the characters. I loved seeing Ariel and Eric. Even the jokes were pretty funny.Overall, it's always fun to watch Disney movies again!
Disney gives us the breezy story of a quixotic young princess who throws away her regal underwater status to... become a princess on land, instead. At the time, this material represented a fresh return to form for the studio, after thirty years of floundering with overwrought talking-animal adventures and off-brand fantasy epics. In contrast to those more ambitious undertakings, The Little Mermaid is intentionally light and airy - a simple fable that doesn't stretch beyond its own limitations - and there's a certain sense of comfortable familiarity to that. After all, aren't the best fairy tales finished in twenty pages or less?Clarity of vision and creative restraint might seem like easy concepts, but continually hitting those targets over the length of a feature film isn't nearly as easy as it might seem. This particular effort is aided by a rousing villainess, a handful of spirited musical numbers and a bright, colorful visual identity. The animation can be weirdly inconsistent at times, but the most important moments all hit their marks and the major character designs have proven their staying power.An inspired, back-to-basics effort from a then-desperate studio that ushered in a widely-regarded period of creative renaissance, both behind the scenes and upon the silver screens. Maybe not one of Disney's very best, but it does well enough for an eighty-minute kids' film and its broader importance can't be overstated.
This is the movie that helped launch the Disney Renaissance back in the Nineties.And its then-revolutionary animation (resembling Old School hand-painted style, but obviously computer-generated) made me go back to see it at least three times in a row.Half of the principal cast members are gone, now. Most recently, Samuel T. Wright. The inimitable voice of Sebastian! I remember seeing him on Broadway in the early Seventies. He had taken over the role of Narrator, in 'Pippin,' from Ben Vereen.But, this movie will live up to Sebastian's prediction as 'de most spectacular' thing he has ever done. Thanks, partly, to the digital restoration it was subjected to in 2018. But, mostly thanks to the original contributions made by Samuel T. Wright, Buddy Hackett, Kenneth Mars, Alan Menken, Pat Carroll, and Ben Wright.May all those talented graduates of the Old School rest in peace.
The Little Mermaid (1989)Duration: 1h 23min
Category: Animation, Family, Fantasy
Release: 17 November 1989
Country : (USA)The movie starts with the announcement of sea animals, where a concert were being held. On the concert , the princess were to be performed in the center. But at that time, she were not there. The king, who were also invited on the concert, got tensed and angry about the absence of the little princess.On the other hand, the princess were with her fish friend, going here and there in search of some tressures and antiques that could be found on the sinked ships. Suddenly attacked by a big sea shark and they escaped.When the princess came back and her father came to all the truth, he was angry to the princess and expressed his anger about not to further go to the surface of the water.At that time , the king spied on her daughter. The spy found a very secret room where all the secret treasures that were been collected by the princess has stored.On there, a lot of things were gathered and it feels like nothing in the world is missing from there.Suddenly, they found the darkness and when the princess went to see that, she found a big ship , passing through the ocean and there were a lot of fireworks. The princess got amazed and went to see the thing that she never seen before. She found men , celebrating , dancing and singing. One of them , a handsome boy was also staying and dancing before them. She fall in love with the boy.On the other hand, a octopus women, who was a witch, following the princess and want to harm her. It was the witches intention to harm her, make the king weak and took the throne.On that night, a strong storm came upon the ship. The ship was about to sink and all the men , were in it, dived on the ocean and got escaped. But the dog of the boy was still on the ship and it was unable to jump. When the boy took back to the dog, he saved its life but he trapped there. A large explosion happened there.Then the water princess came and saved the boy and take him to the beach. The boy for a little moment, found to sing her and then the princess went away when the other men from the ship came to him.The princess were eager to meet her love and express her feeling. But she is not like human. She went to the witch and wanted to have her legs. But the witch was evil. She gave him condition to give her legs and it was in cost of her voice and her legs will only remain for 3 days . The princess agreed and then she had her legs.After coming to the boy, she can't expressed her feeling. On the other hand, the evil witch hypnotized the boy went to marry. By the help of sea animals, the princess come to win her love and after that the king agreed to make her daughters love come in a reality.After that, they married and all became happy together.........................................
This might be because I am now middle aged but I found this film quite dull and lacking any character. I don't mean the storyline-it is par for the course for a Disney film-or the score-which is largely delightful. No I mean the animation and design. I had this film a lot brighter and vivid in my memory. I remember it feeling like a 2d version of Finding Nemo but when I re-watched today it struck me as nearly colorless. Time makes fools of us all but boy is the overall look of this film dark, dull and nearly ugly.
The Little Mermaid is a classic with such great music. Every kid loves it.
Ariel is a far greater character and role model than Elsa and Anna and doesn't deserve hatred.
I was obsessed with this growing up! I remember singing like Ariel on my way to school and driving my mum up the wall.Watching it as an adult, I now realize how it plays in how I understood music. The crab, Sebastian, introduces new sounds so you can hear it come in. When all is played on time, an orchestral moment is created. It's a great way to teach kids about music in my opinion. You can always follow this up with 'Fantasia', but 'Fantasia' always made me drift off as a child.However, watching this with my husband for his first time, he was not as impressed. I guess he was hung up over Ariel wanting more, and never happy until she gets what she wants from daddy, like a spoilt child. That part never stood out for me as a kid, and I have always been described as being too kind. Rather, I was in love with the love story and swooning over her dreamy prince charming! Little girls and women in general will always fantasize about meeting their perfect someone and having the perfect wedding.I also enjoyed the way the sea was explained. It doesn't go heavy on the pirates element, but rather it focuses on all the sea creatures that lurk below, whether real or mythical. My husband does agree that the barracuda is the most vicious sea creature, so that was good, but it disturbed him that an oil painting was not destroyed by the sea water, in Ariel's cave. But it's true how those who work at sea believe in mythical creatures like the black virgin.The villain was also awesome, in my opinion. I always remembered her as a giant octopus, but my husband corrected me saying that she is a mythical creature; a kraken. Thinking about it now, Ursula comes across as a little b*tchy. In the same way as if a real life woman would fight over a guy, or rushing towards her beloved sale item. There would be pushing & shoving, hair pulling, nails, screaming, and maybe even stilettos used as a weapon.Overall, this is a love story for the girls! Although Cinderella is a girly Disney, some boys like this one, including my husband, surprise surprise!
The Little Mermaid is what help kick off what as known as the Disney renaissance.It is easy to see why and how it could have happened.The Little Mermaid follows the story of a Mermaid named Ariel (voiced by Jodie Benson) is the youngest daughter of King Triton (voiced by Kenneth Mars) and after she saved a human prince named Eric (voiced by Christopher Daniel Barnes) she fells for him against her fathers wishes.However when Ariel makes a deal with Ursula (voiced by Pat Carroll) to become human for three days in exchange for her beautiful voice.The animation is some of the finest work in any animation movie with beautiful attention to detail and the character models look very good along either the background work that is like looking at pictures.The voice acting very strong here as each character voice work for the story and the movie
The cast didn't give any weak voice work here some of the strongest voice work ever doneThe music is fantastic and the 'Part of that world' song being so beautiful that it won the hearts of many.Overall The Little Mermaid is one of the best animation movies ever made and shouldn't be missedI give The Little Mermaid an 9 out of 10
Girly Mermaid wants to be human because she doesn't know her place. A witch grants it and trouble awaits.Its a story of experimenting, romance and of not accepting who you are. It has the cliche Disney narrative. She meets the evil guy who turns out to be her lover then a battle for her world vs land world occurs then good guys win to sell toys to girls. Its like Disney Pocahontas before PocahontasLittle Mermaid was just a product to sell stuff and manipulate viewers. It's a good movie for what is seen, although it has a bad message.What can be learned? Know your role and stay with it.Verdict: A little cliche.
Most things about Little Mermaid are brilliant. The characters, pacing and world building are amazing. Ariel is a great main character and the animation is beautiful, but there are quite a few things I have a problem with. Some of the comic reliefs are really annoying and the only song I remember liking at all was 'Under the Sea'. It's great on the contrary, but it isn't really for me.
Subjectively speaking, I'm always going to like The Jungle Book more than this, but I'd say they're about on the same level of quality for me.The music is a vast improvement over anything from Snow White or Peter Pan (except the first song with Ariel, that one wasn't that good), the voice acting is a lot better and certainly much less annoying, and I felt the direction improved quite a bit too.Story's a bit cliche, granted, and it's still not a directorial tour de force or anything, but hey, I can't pretend it wasn't a hell of a lot less boring than some of Disney's earlier stuff.And it was nice that they didn't make fun of Native Americans this time around as well.However, it's the next Disney film I plan on watching that will probably never be beaten in my eyes...
What more is there to say about The Little Mermaid that hasn't already been said over a billion times by everyone else before me? All I really have to offer is my own personal take on what this cherished masterpiece of endearing art means to me and voice my honest opinion of it. Firstly; rewatching it for the first time in what seems like forever ago now, I'd almost forgotten just how captivating the little mermaid herself truly is. Inherently speaking, mermaids have always been depicted as angelic sea creatures with a dazzling physical attractiveness throughout most of history (blonde beauties of the big blue, in other words). But I'm not kidding when I say that even as a really, really young child, I wholeheartedly thought this feisty redhead was drop-dead-gorgeous (especially with that out-of-this-world singing voice of hers). Being just an innocent-minded tot at the time, I was totally awestruck by her warm, gentle character traits with that bubbly, outgoing personality she has. I do indeed believe Ariel is my number one favourite princess of them all because unlike Beauty and the Beast's Belle or Aladdin's Jasmine, she's emotionally moved me way more than either of those two ever have done. For me personally, she seemed to be the purest embodiment of a beautiful young lady with radiant femininity (I may come-off sounding unfairly biased towards Ariel but none of the others can really compare for me, nor have they ever come anywhere near close to surpassing her).I think my favourite scene in the entire film is the aftermath of Ariel rescuing Eric from drowning. This affectionate sequence is exquisitely put-together and though I can't quite explain it, there's just something I find so downright lovely about seeing how caring she is towards him when lying right next to his semi-unconscious body on the tranquil shoreline, gazing upon the first human being she's ever come into contact with (I'd say it's a very tender moment). My other favourite scenes are actually the ones where she can't talk (just hear me out!). One of Ariel's defining characteristics is that she's positively fascinated by the human world above, appearing overjoyed at the mere sight of any new human thing she comes across (you genuinely see her wide-eyes light-up and sparkle with such child-like curiosity whenever she's got that enticed look on her bonny face). Ariel has an inquisitive nature that's very much apparent, made even more so by her staring in sheer amazement at these mundane, everyday items that we often take for granted (it's sincerely uplifting, seeing her be that happy over the most littlest of things); like when she's figuring out how a horse-drawn carriage works, or trying out dancing for the very first time with her newly-implemented legs, and how about interrupting a Punch & Judy show because she's too intrigued by the hand-puppets being used for it (her excitement really shines through as the execution of these scenes is excellent). Even though she can't speak in some of the aforementioned parts I highlighted, I just love how expressive and emotive the talented animators made Ariel's petite facial-reactions and graceful body-movements out to be (heck, even her quirky mannerisms are highly enjoyable to watch). They say a picture paints a thousand words and it's true, as this is more than enough to make us get exactly how she's feeling (it's the universal language anyone is capable of understanding). And when Ariel is visibly distraught over something she finds significant; like the heartbreaking scene in which she overhears a hypnotised Eric planning on marrying a disguised Ursula (that announcement was quite distressing for her as she got all shaken-up about the ordeal), or the impactful scene of her desperately gasping for air after being transformed into a human while she's still underwater (frantically swimming up to the surface), your sympathy goes out for the poor girl as the terrifying experiences she endures cause her a tremendous amount of emotional turmoil. Whenever the film gives you the chance to share in Ariel's traumatic pain, you're presented with a prime opportunity to comprehend the amount of sadness that's taken a hold over her (it makes you weep along with her, as she's suffering in silence).In retrospect, when taking the film at face-value, many people automatically assume the only reason for Ariel's yearning to be part of the human world was only due to her sudden infatuation with Eric (but this couldn't be any further from the truth!). They always tend to overlook the fact that in this particular scene, Ariel was way more invested in the tour of the kingdom rather than Eric (but he was just the extra push she needed to make her stay up there official). And while we're on the subject, these two were the first Disney couple to be portrayed in a fairly realistic-manner (in actuality, they were way ahead of their time). Before them, the princesses/princes were more or less stand-in props. They were merely there to fulfil a role, as the plot itself was the main draw, not the characters. This film was the first to really break that formulaic mould as Ariel and Eric actually had personalities and spent time together, which made their love story far more compelling. Ariel underwent some character development which, prior to this, simply didn't happen to Disney Princesses (quite revolutionary for its time). Eric had meaningful dialogue and a proactive role as the dashing hero who rescues the strong-willed damsel in distress, slaying Ursula with a literal shipwreck (now that's surely an act of true love right there, if I ever saw one). And although we didn't get to see more of their budding relationship blossom, the closeness of their romantic bond was clearly implied whenever they shared screen-time. The typical backlash I hear all too often, which I'd like to address here, is that everybody finds the idea of two people falling in love within such a short timespan as a ludicrous notion and a tired old cliche. But seriously, what did you expect to happen? All of these traditional fairytales are set in the olden days of the Middle Ages, when there wasn't a great deal of stuff to do (so what else was there really on people's minds back then, other than focusing on finding their potential spouse). Speaking of courtship, the most amusing part of the whole film which always sticks-out in my head is the scene where Ariel is invited to join Eric for dinner and when she sees a fork lying on the table, she immediately picks it up and without any hesitation whatsoever starts using it as a hairbrush, all while smiling directly at him (words can't even begin to describe the sheer look of pure confusion on his face, it's absolutely priceless!). Subtle comedic moments such as this are a key factor in making audiences care more about these types of fantasy characters and having a unique interaction like this establishes them as relatable people, thus conveying a real sense of connection between us and our fictional protagonists (why'd you think so many of the Marvel movies use this critical element of humour).Revisiting the film after all these years, I finally understand Ariel's rebellious story-arc more now than I've ever done before and have developed a much deeper appreciation of it. She didn't initially want legs just so she could be with Eric, she wanted them to feel independent (it's a clever symbolism of her longing for freedom). She's Triton's youngest daughter and the seventh in-line for the throne, so there was no possible way she would be queen. She didn't really have a greater purpose in her kingdom other than singing at concert halls with her six older sisters and like I said before, she was more obsessed with the world above before she ever even met Eric. An enraged Triton aggressively destroying her entire collection of human 'treasures' in a fit of anger pretty much confirmed that she didn't belong down below with her own kind (she was willingly-ready to leave her Mer heritage behind altogether). That must've been really hard for Ariel, everyone adoring her divine voice whenever she hits a few high-notes, but for no one to care about the actual words she says (seeing it from the humble perspective of not fitting in with the rest of society's expectations, subsequently helps the viewer to easily empathise with her anguish even more). Beneath all that self-confidence, there lies a confused youth who's coming to terms with the predicament she's in of finding her own way in a backwards-thinking world (this is exactly the sort of emotional impact that a well-written animated character can leave on you).The overall vibe I get when watching this movie from start to finish is one of pure magic; from the opening scenes in which the sailors are singing their sea-shanties above the waves as we then transition down to a mythical undersea world accompanied with that heavenly-sound of melodic vocal music harmoniously playing as the title-screen appears, all the way up to the bittersweet happily-ever-after wedding wherein Triton gives Ariel his full-permission to live on-land with the very human who saved her life. To me, The Little Mermaid is practically perfect in every way imaginable, with every single frame of hand-drawn animation legitimately evoking a magical sentiment that fills me with an overwhelming abundance of blissful wonderment. It's got a fun adventurous spirit, has a real heartfelt story, all the songs are extremely memorable and as a whole, the film is surprisingly undated as it still holds up remarkably well today (these are the fundamental qualities required for what truly timeless classics are made of). And as we all very well know, it certainly DOESN'T need to be remade!!!
This animation is an old and nostalgic Disney work. Like always bad versus good, Love versus jealousy, And of course the real kiss story. The characterization was also good and the story was interesting. The Little Mermaid is a popular Disney animation, And the character of the mermaid is one of Disney's beloved princesses.
The music, the comic relief, and the kissing make this comedy for families and their pets!!
No doubt that this is the film which started the Disney renaissance period. So magical.
Watching this movie as an adult, I realize that I could not have been more wrong. This film is a must see for all children, not only for the beautiful story of true love, but for the catchy songs, fun humor, and tear jerking moments. As an adult watching this film, I realize that this movie is not just a love story. In fact, the film isn't really about that. This film is about the father-daughter relationship between Ariel and King Triton.When Ariel falls in love with a human, Triton becomes angry and destroys her things because he is afraid of her being hurt. Ariel does not realize this, so she goes to the sea witch Ursula and exchanges her voice to be able to walk on land and be with her prince. The love story in this film, sweet as it may be, is only a bonus to this film. The story is really about Ariel and Triton, and Triton's love for his daughter, so proved when he sacrifices himself and control over the ocean to protect her.
This film is one of the best films out there, also being the first Disney classic of the Disney Renaissance is among the top 10 animation films in the world, The Little Mermaid was the first Disney film to win two Oscars (for best animated film and best original song Under The Sea ''Aqui no mar' in Brazilian Portuguese'), among so many films that Disney made, 4 were chosen to gain a 3D shape. after the success of The Lion King, among them Monsters Inc., Finding Nemo, Beauty and the Beast and The Little Mermaid that was only released in 3D blu ray, besides being on the list of live action to be produced.Film reviewed on the 3rd to the 4th of January 2021.
I love this movie, I love Ariel, I super love Ursula... this movie is a masterpiece that always will be in my heart!
Medium movie for Disney movies. I loved Sebastian. The movie's songs were great, especially Ariel's songs, who had a beautiful voice. I was hoping to show people the bad side. Ariel's character was not excellent despite her beauty and being one of the most beautiful Disney princesses, but her character was bad
The movie itself is great. The story flows whether you agree on the moral of it; the animation is realistic especially scenes in the water with the effects of wave; 'Part of Your World' and 'Under the Sea' signals the advent of 'Disney songs'. However, the story is not relatable anymore. Like Sebastian said, the seaweed is always greener in somebody else's lake. Ariel is a 'hopeless child' who throws away her talent, her family, and her life for the boy she has met for seconds. She is impetuous and selfish, putting others in danger with her with stupid contract. As the movie heads toward the ending, it loses focus; the storyline becomes childish and excessive. 'Little Mermaid' tried its best at that time, but it does not impact today's audience that much.
I like the antics of Sebastian. They should have called this movie 'the funny red crab'
This film is great fuel for those who fantasise about breaking free. This is all due to Ariel who longs to see the world and feels trapped by her strict father. It's not the only Disney film with this plot, but it's an effective one as she expresses her longings through music and collections. The music in particular stands out in this film.
This movie is a disney classic. It really makes you dream with open eyes. It's enjoyable for both children and adults, males and females. We all wish to have a romantic life like this. But the thing enhanced in the movie are the eyes and glance of a woman which are the hardest thing to resist in real life.
Sweet, straightforward Disney concoction set under the sea about a lovely and rebellious young mermaid named Ariel who, though forbidden by her father (a strict ruler who despises humans), is fascinated by life on the surface and falls for a human prince. This leads her to make a dicey bargain with Ursula, a bitter sea witch whose machinations could jeopardize Ariel's very existence. With only a limited amount of time, Ariel must rely on skittish fish Flounder and crabby crab Sebastian if she hopes to make her dream come true. Joyful animated feature with indelible characters, pitch-perfect vocals, and snazzy musical set pieces, plus as an added bonus important themes like parenthood and teen angst that will strike a chord in both kids and adults. Some additional backstory and a few more complications in the plot could've elevated this even more, but it's hard to complain while viewing such jubilant storytelling. ***
'The Little Mermaid (1989)' pretty much acts as a blueprint for all the Disney musicals that follow it, establishing the studio's 'modern day' formula from its story structure to its song choices. There's no denying how influential the picture is, really. Having said that, its own influences are equally as evident and it's clearly an extension of its predecessors. The film tells the tale of a young mermaid princess who longs to be on land and so, in a moment of pure face-palming naïveté, makes a deal with a soul-collecting sea-witch. Along the way, there are several catchy songs and plenty of water-logged chuckles. The thing has oodles of charm, which mostly mitigate its few story issues and typically predictable nature. It's vibrant, well-animated and lively, as fun to look at as it is to listen to. I mean, 'Under The Sea' is an absolute bop, and Sebastian's face-off against an angry chef is almost just as enjoyable. As a whole, the flick is constantly entertaining. It sits in the upper tier of Disney's catalogue, for sure. 7/10
This movie is fine. there isn't anything i strongly disliked, it just didn't do much for me. sebastian made me laugh a few times but there wasn't much else on the comedy side. when i compare it to other disney animated classics that i've watched recently, it didn't come close to aladdin or even mulan. the songs were good, but none were great, altho under the sea us ridiculously catchy. but ever song in aladdin is awesome, better than every song in the little mermaid. i feel like i'm being really negative, so i will again state, this movie is fine (about 5 viewings, 6/27/2020)
Another one of the studio's films I hadn't previously seen, this one has a huge following even today. Whilst I don't personally agree it's top tier Disney, it's definitely one of the better ones from their early decades.It has catchy songs, memorable characters and a fun premise so I can see the reasoning for its hype. Jodi Benson does very well in the lead role of Ariel, while Pat Carroll (Ursula) and, most so, Samuel E. Wright (Sebastian) both give unforgettable voice performances. The latter is great, as he also has the best song in 'Under the Sea'.'The Little Mermaid' merges together for a solid film, just not one of my own favourites.
My now grown-up daughters wore out only 2 VHS movies when they were children: This movie and the original movie version of 'Annie'. (It takes between 60 to 100+ 'runs' through a typical good-quality VCR to do this.) Their favorite song was 'Part of Your World' which my (at the time) 11 year-old daughter sang on stage in full costume, at school. I still have this on a VHS 'home movie'. Truly amazing in every respect: Animation, adaptation. original story, songs and orchestration. Great voice actors. Still a favorite to this day; now with my grandkids. Is it a 'girl's movie'? Yes and no. As a (male) adult I thoroughly enjoy viewing it, even today. Their grandmother enjoys it as well. It was somewhat controversial in 1989, with the exaggerated-impossible 'teen-age figure' of Ariel. Buddy Hackett as the seagull and Sebastian the Crab (Samuel E. Wright) steal every scene they appear in. Pat Carroll is deliriously evil as Ursula the Sea-Witch who comes to an explosive end (which some critics deemed too violent.) Entertaining and fun with a beautiful, happy 'Disney Ending', which is far superior to the Hans Christian Anderson tale, which doesn't end well at all.
The Little Mermaid is quite interesting. The music is unforgettable. The dialogue is very great, and the storytelling is amazing. Ursula is a great villain. But sometimes, I get bothered by how Ariel gives up one of her greatest gifts, her beautiful voice, for a prince she barely knows. But I don't let that ruin the movie, because it's still a classic.
This animation is very very wonderful. Is Magic. Ariel is very beautiful
A very beautiful and funny movie. Ariel is so funny and beautiful
A mermaid princess makes a Faustian bargain with an unscrupulous sea hag in order to meet a human prince on land. This Disney favorite features an unusual heroine and atypical music, such as the favorite 'Under the Sea' reggae tune.
The original story is my favorite fairy tale. The key is the ending. The mermaid failed to live a happy life with the prince, but the animated version has changed. It is also one of my favorite animations, leaving the children a beautiful childhood. I actually cried, when I was a child, I only felt the courage of Ariel ~ Now it seems that the father's selfless love.
'The Little Mermaid' is a wildly entertaining movie. I saw this movie when it first came out (MovieWorld, Douglaston, NY) and many times since. Today was the first time I watched it in many years. Shame on me. It's terrific. The characters, artwork, story are all top-notch. The music is off-the-charts . Every song is great. 'The Little Mermaid' also packs quite the emotional punch. It's a great movie that I'll be watching again soon.
Just reading some reviews on here for this and to be perfectly honest in this day and age it's so easy to get offended by things. To put it from a child's point of view they're not going to watch this and think oh hang a minute I'm going to do exactly what Ariel is going to do blah blah.And of course not they are children.I was 9 years old when this came out and it instantly became my favourite Disney film because of .....................the music!!
That's right the music is what stuck with me. It wasn't the message I was interested in after watching it was the singing and songs.
Plus my favourite animals have always been Dolphins/Whales, so therefore I loved this film straightaway.
As for the film itself as a 40 year old woman I still do not see why people are still getting offended it's just an animated film. I still love this film now as much as I did 31 years ago. It's a fun colourful film to enjoy any day of the year and if I do ever have children I'd definitely would show this them. My 6 year old niece loves it as much as I do
The fun of Mermaid attracted me.She is so real, but the reality is also very cruel.
This time, Hans Christian Anderson rescues the Disney animation factory from the fire - this is a wonderfully colourful and fun adaptation of his almost Faustian story of being very careful what you wish for. 'Ariel' is a beautiful mermaid who is fascinated by what goes on ashore - and that only gets more obsessive when she espies, and ultimately rescues from a violent storm, the equally gorgeous 'Prince Eric' and falls hook, line and sinker. Her sagacious father 'King Triton' forbids her from seeing him again and so, like any resourceful teenager, she enters a pact with evil sea witch 'Ursula' that allows her to become human for three days and go ashore to seek out her new love - but at what cost... The support characters are so good in this - especially Samuel Wright as the long-suffering chancellor/lobster 'Sebastian' and Pat Carroll as the evil 'Ursula' aided and abetted by her slippery eel sidekicks 'Flotsam' & 'Jetsam' and Alan Menken's songs, including, 'Under the Sea' & 'Kiss the Girl' jauntily carry it all along apace. 20-odd years later, it's still well worth a watch.
You fall in love with a man on a first sight because he is handsome and you toss away your MIND, your expression, your communication and you family, friends and life just to be with him. Oh oh. Sounds bad.
Im enjoy when I watch this movie. The music, the story and the animation is quite good. The story is understandable. But why are they fall in love to easy. Ariel love the prince after she looks at him. She try to run away from her father because of that, and she try to trade her voice to meet him. Maybe that they call love at first sight. Eric love her because her voice. Maybe in their age, they easy to fall in love.
Not understand their love at all.
This song is my personal favorite and it was nominated for an academy award.Now for the movie Benson has a wonderful voice,Ursula is the unforgettable villain and the underwater scenes are very well drawed.A funny film with memorable songs.
When you're a kid, things just seem big. Toilets look like they're 10 feet wide. I saw this when I was just a cherub. Ursula, I found her to be really scary. Now I see the rich humor in her worldview.Ariel is cool, she's just the best. When I was a kid, Part Of Your World was my favorite song. (That was before I discovered Fatboy Slim.)I only have one complaint: I know mermaids are magic, so that explains how they can breathe underwater. But how do fish breathe underwater? I've never understood that. Wouldn't the fishes' lungs get full of water?
If you were to ask me what my favorite Disney canon film was, 'The Little Mermaid' would be a strong contender for the title, because I seriously adore this movie. Growing up, I never had much of an exposure to the big four of the Disney renaissance. 'The Little Mermaid', 'Beauty and the Beast', 'Aladdin' and 'The Lion King' have been in the Disney vault for much of my life. I'm partly annoyed by that and partly okay with it, because it's allowed to me scrutinize Disney's most popular films and decide if they live up to the hype around them or not without having to worry about a filter of nostalgia. For the most part, I'd say that they do, especially this one. 'The Little Mermaid' is one of those rare Disney movies and one of those rare musicals where you know it'll be something unique and inventive right from the opening sequence, taking us from Eric's raucous ship to the undersea city of Atlantica with Alan Menken's theme for Ariel firing up for the first time.Due to it's ambitious plot, the film moves along at a brisk pace through it's three acts. Ariel's actions and the consequences of her decisions (along with that of other supporting characters) carry her neatly from one scene to another, and the movie is never once allowed to drag (though the ending does seem to wrap up a bit quickly, like the filmmakers realized the movie was running long and they wanted to nip things in the bud). I've talked a lot in the past about how a strong ensemble cast can make or break a movie and while the animation is great and the soundtrack is stellar, it's the characters in 'The Little Mermaid' and the way the character relationships shine through in the second half of the movie that really elevate the film. There's Ariel's euphoric chemistry with Eric; Flounder, Sebastian and Scuttle's devotion to their little mermaid friend; Triton's guilt and concern over his lost daughter; Grimsby offering Eric sincere relationship advice because he doesn't just want the prince to be wed, he also wants his psuedo-son to be happy; and in a twisted sort of way, there's even Ursula trying her best to kill Ariel to avenge the only real friends the sea witch had in exile. It all makes this film's universe feel thoroughly lived in.'The Little Mermaid's' lead character, Ariel, is the youngest of seven royal daughters, as well as the most passionate and outspoken one. Instead of lying around the palace without purpose, Ariel spends her days poking around shipwrecks and chatting up seagulls, rarely staying still for a moment, learning more about human inventions and human society. For years now, Ariel has taken an interest in the world above her head, romanticizing it as a land where seemingly anything is possible, and she'd love to see it all. She'd love nothing more than to cross the human / mermaid divide, live a life of adventure and excitement and exploration on land with endless, endless potential, and do something meaningful with her life. But she knows it'll never happen. One, because it's impossible, and two, her father, the king, despises humans. Ariel, in general, likes to try to understand and appreciate the beauty in everything, and she doesn't feel comfortable accepting and internalizing her family's harsh prejudices just because they're her family. But by the start of the film, she's starting to lose faith in her instincts and her intuition, and she's starting to consider that maybe her father is right, maybe she is just a fool. Still, an eventful encounter with an admirable human prince, who proves her right about humans being more than mindless monsters (that they can be brave and noble and self-sacrificing), convinces her not to let the dream die so soon and leaves her with quite a crush. She learns the importance of staying true to herself and sticking up for what she believes in. When her father finds out, the king becomes terrifyingly abusive towards her, destroying her collection of human objects, and a pissed-off Ariel decides to cut a deal with Ursula the sea witch to try to become human.I've touched on this before on this blog, but Ariel is one of my favorite female characters from Disney. As far as Disney princesses go, she's a pretty big deal. She's the first truly proactive princess of the lot, who not only dreams of a more fulfilling life, but actively pursues it at every turn (not to mention, saves a dude's life from drowning), finding acceptance on land and the space to pursue her interests. You can't help but take a shine to her for her kindness, courage and personal convictions. She's also the first princess that's allowed to be more than just a role model figure. Ariel is a fundamentally flawed person, and her flaws drive the conflict of the story forward (if you've read my reviews of 'Brother Bear' and 'Frozen' you know those are my favorite sorts of characters). To elaborate, Ariel is a kind, brave, fun-loving and open-minded individual, but she can also be very stubborn and shortsighted. Throughout the film, she ignores Flounder and Sebastian's warnings and keeps putting herself into dangerous situations for the sake of discovery, all too cavalier about the risks (a trait she shares with Remy from Pixar's 'Ratatouille'), which usually winds up stressing out her friends. This eventually catches up to her when she loses her bet with Ursula, and the sea witch not only betrays her (since she was just using her) but also almost kills her and her friends and family. While Ariel wasn't wrong to want a human life or pursue it, she does learn the hard way that her actions have consequences that can affect more than just herself. Nearly every Disney renaissance film was a coming-of-age story, and all of them contained a growing-up lesson: this one was Ariel's. Ultimately, Ariel is one of my favorite Disney characters because despite being a mermaid, she's one of the ones that feels the most human, relatable and well-rounded.Ariel is a lucky girl, because it's pretty clear she has some of the best guy friends a mermaid could ask for. Ariel does most of the work attaining her goals in this movie, but she wouldn't have gotten as far as she did without Flounder, Sebastian and Scuttle helping her. Sebastian the crustacean is Atlantica's esteemed court composer and the king's personal adviser / right-hand man. He's clearly a grumpy middle-aged man, but he has a good heart and he's scrappy; he endures quite a bit of slapstick in this movie (especially during 'Les Poissons'), but he never lets it slow him down. For the first half of the film, Sebastian is only concerned with maintaining the usual status quo, keeping Ariel in line and keeping the king happy, so he doesn't invoke the man's anger. It's not until he sees how badly Triton hurts her and he knows his own part in that that Sebastian realizes Ariel is more than just the king's daughter, she's her own person. She deserves a life of her own and a chance to be happy, so he decides to 'switch sides' so to speak and help her brave the human world to make that happen, despite knowing it will probably only lead to trouble. During their adventures on land, the crab's greater understanding of the teen and the mermaid's appreciation of his friendship leads to the two bonding some, and Sebastian surprisingly becomes an uncle figure to Ariel, or at least a stand-in guardian. It's quite an improvement on their previous relationship and makes for some amusing visuals (in fact, 'Kiss The Girl' might be my favorite scene in the movie because of the surreal but adorable sight of a mermaid's guy friends trying to set her up with a boy).Flounder is one of the few figures in this movie that's a wholly static character. He starts the film as Ariel's timid, supportive friend who often gets dragged along on adventures and by the end he is still exactly that. I guess you could say he becomes more of an action fish than he ever thought he would be: braving storms, moving huge statues by himself, creating romantic atmospheres, and taking on Flotsam and Jetsam to save Eric's life. With so many characters in this movie, not all of them can be developed. Out of Ariel's three friends / sidekicks, Scuttle the seagull is the one that's often forgotten about - including by Disney themselves - and that is not okay. Scuttle does the best he can y'all. Scuttle is Ariel's consultant on human objects, and it's pretty clear his information is not correct. It's actually not clear if Scuttle believes it all himself or if he's just straight up making things up to tell her. In any case, Scuttle is the loudest, most scatter-brained member of Ariel's friend group and something of a screw-up, but incredibly friendly, well-meaning and supportive, as well as surprisingly invested in sea business that doesn't really pertain to him. He also retains some of the spirit from the last film in the Disney canon by being a fast-talking, softhearted New Yorker type among the ensemble cast; the goofy everyman acting opposite to the more serious, straight man Sebastian. Scuttle finally gets a chance to prove himself when he brings Ursula's treachery to light and calls in reinforcements for the gang's final fight with the sea witch.Worldly, seafaring Prince Eric is the male protagonist of this film and Ariel's love interest. It's pretty easy to see how she got smitten so easily. The dude is humble (despite coming from a regal background, he never treats the people around him as being lesser than him), brave (never asking anything of his subjects that he wouldn't do himself), handsome, kind to animals (he's ultimately willing to die for his pet, Max), he loves the sea (which means he has a wanderlust like Ariel does), and most importantly, he's single. He's pretty much her dream guy, and as soon as she realizes he's looking for a lady and he's already glimpsed her, she knows she wants a shot with him. Ariel is also Prince Eric's love interest. Eric is a hopeless romantic and a bit of a daydreamer. His manservant and
A good example for how simplicity is often an under utilized tool for movies. Nothing about this animation is mind blowing for me personally but every aspect is well done with one thing in mind; tell the story in a simple, entertaining and effective way.A 16 year old mermaid's love story with a human.
Pretty annoyed they're screwing up the live action movie.
30 years ago, the Walt Disney Company released their feature-film adaptation of the Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale, The Little Mermaid. Made at a time when the animation studio was in a huge rut, this along with Roger Rabbit and the boost of morale brought them back to their glory days with a whole decade known as their Renaissance era. To this day, it remains one of their most recognizable commodities, spawning a TV series, a sequel, a prequel and even a live-action remake currently in development. But one question remains...does it still hold any water now?The story follows a young mermaid named Ariel, who wants to become part of the human world after falling in love with a prince named Eric, but learns the tough challenges of steering away from her own undersea life. While this story sounds weak on paper, the execution more than makes up for it. Due to the film being told in the style of a Broadway musical, its emotional core feels incredibly strong and personal with its characters. The musical numbers by the great Howard Ashman and Alan Menken come in all shapes and sizes, from Part of Your World telling us everything we need to know about Ariel's inner desires, to Under the Sea providing us with enough proof as to why the grass is always greener on one side, to Poor Unfortunate Souls being a cautionary reminder of the consequences to your actions, and Kiss the Girl being a harmonious love song on getting with your partner. These songs, along with the wonderful performances from Jodi Benson, Samuel E. Wright and Pat Carroll, help give the story an identity that no Disney film prior had in years: musical narrative.In addition, this film is a tour de force of luscious animation and sound design. The characters have the usual Disney style but with a more cartoony flair that utilizes a good amount of squash and stretch. The special effects are a nice touch too, with a lot of magic, water, electricity, fire and even smoke practically popping out of the screen with striking detail and horrific imagery (helps too that airbrushes, CGI and superimposing were used to great effect). The backgrounds as well display the necessary depth needed for a film set both under water and on the land, with only a few locations needed to make the story feel contained without going all over the place. As for the sound work, this had at the time way more sound effects than any other Disney film, and it shows considering all the mixing and editing needing to be done. Of course there are quiet moments, but the scenes with a lot of suspense feel all the more thrilling with the overwhelming noise flooding (no pun intended) the screens. It's almost as if the film wouldn't have sounded quite as epic without the foley work.But now it's time to comment on what people to this day criticize the film for: its moral. Many have argued that Ariel gets what she wants at the end without learning much of anything and just runs of with a man she barely knows. While I do find those critiques valid in their own right, the one thing many of us have forgot about is that the point of the film is to let your children grow up in their own way. King Triton wants what's best for his daughter without truly understanding, which in turn led Ariel to do whatever it took to be on the land she wanted to explore from the beginning. This resulted in her having to form a connection with Eric voiceless, and even when the tables turned against her, Eric still selflessly fought back against the villainous Ursula to be with the one who he felt was made for her. And that's the key element to remember: the one made for you. Ariel still could have become a human through magic just to be on the surface, but it was the man she fell in love with that gave her journey a true purpose, and from then on, her real story had only just begun.With highly memorable songs, magical animation and a message on finding your purpose that anyone can relate to, Disney's The Little Mermaid holds up just as well as its big splash in 1989. There are many films that changed cinema forever, and this was one of them for putting the House of Mouse back in the spotlight that they've kept since then. Even if it's not their real crowning achievement in filmmaking and storytelling, it set the bar that most of their movies since then would keep trying to get up to for over three decades, and we have the magic of Broadway and emotional resonance to thank for that.
This movie started a decade run of animated family movies that are timeless and amazing. highly recommended every own it on bluray so the kids can watch omit over and over instead of the current crap that disney  put out these days.
(Flash Review)So.... Disobeying your parents, running away, ignoring commitments, chasing a hunk you just met and giving up your speech (essentially your mind) to do so because you can just toss your hair, flutter your eyes and shake your body is message bring sent to the little girls...? Because of course everything will work out perfectly in the end. Really? This is a very shallow movie with very little character development and Ariel has no arc as she learns nothing and gets her way in the end. Aside from the good animation, for the time, and the catchy tunes and outstanding voice acting by Ursula there was literally zero message to be taken from this. Almost worse than a Barbie cartoon in terms of message.
I am a man that loves this movie. It came out when I was in my teens, and has been a favorite of mine ever since. This is the story of Ariel, a mermaid that wants more out of life, and has an unnatural obsession with all things associated with humans. Despite her father's wishes, she longs to be human, and falls in love with a prince. She essentially sells her soul to a witch to become human and try to win his heart.The songs in this film are sweet, funny, sad and emotional. The voice cast is outstanding. There are the negatives of course, but any negative is far outweighed by the positives. This is a fun movie from start to finish.
I rewatched this film with two young girls and their mom, who had never seen this Disney classic (How did that happen? Well, two of them hadn't been born when it was released in 1989). This was a film of it's time in production, character and acclaim. It set the stage for a resurgent series of highly successful animated features from the Disney Studios with it's beautiful animation and it's lively tone. It reflected a 'princess' culture that would be a hard sell in our 2019 understanding of the hopes and aspirations of young girls. It introduced some unforgettable characters and was a template for future Disney characterization mixes (princesses, larger than life villians, loveable sidekicks, scene stealing attendants). And, it garnered a lot of critical acclaim, winning Oscars for Original Song 'Under the Sea' and Original Score for Alan Menken ('Kiss the Girl' was also nominated in Best Song category). On my first viewing in 1989, I probably would have given the film a 9 (superb) out of 10, but it didn't weather well, for me (it just hit some cultural dissonance with me). This time, but I still give it a 7 (good) out of 10. So, for an overall rating I'll split the difference with an 8 (great). {Animated Musical Feature}
After so many years, and I still enjoy watching it! The songs, it is funny and a great princess story. Ofcourse predictable, but lovely cliche
The Little Mermaid is a dark fairytale and this movie changed it a bit.Animation is better than in Cinderella or Sleeping Beauty for example.Ariel is a very sweet girl and Ursula is very villanous,yet funny.Quite a nice movie and I hope its remake does it justice,since this is many people's favorite(my is Beauty and the Beast).9,5/10
Watched The Little Mermaid featuring the Voice Talents of Jodi Benson(Hunter) as Ariel, Christoper Daniel Barnes(As The World Turns) as Prince Eric, Samuel E, Wright(Bird) as Sebastian, Buddy Hackett(The Love Bug) as Scuttle, Jason Marin(Back To The Future) as Flounder, Ben Wright (The Jungle Book) as Grimsby, Kenneth Mars(Young Frankenstein) as King Triton and Pat Carroll(The Ballad Of Josie) as Ursula.The film was fantastic it is fantastic amazing Songs and great character development also As The Film That launched the Disney Renaissance it is amazing returning to its roots an excellent coming of age story and finding your place in this world 30 Years Later Still A Revolutionary Animated Film that started a Renaissance for Ten Years.The film was brilliant amazing Musical Score by Howard Ashman(Little Shop Of Horrors) & Alan Menken(Sesame Street) also Amazing Direction by Ron Clements(The Great Mouse Detective) and John Musker(The Black Cauldron) 30 Years Later Still A Revolutionary Animated Film 10/10
This is impressive. The perfect blend of kiddish and dark.
This movie is very special to me it has a special connection for my daughter and me.
The live version needs have a girl that looks like our Ariel red hair
I don't like Ariel. She's very thirsty and desperate... Plus there is just something about her, not sure what exactly but I just don't like it. Then I don't find the story compelling either. One of the worst Disney movies in my opinion.
It's the 'first' of many 'popular' Disney movies. The others that followed 'The Little Mermaid' in order are 'The Rescuers Down Under', 'Beauty and the Beast', 'Aladdin', 'The Lion King', 'Pocahontas', 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame', 'Hercules', 'Mulan' and 'Tarzan'. I know. It's hard to choose the best one from the list. I liked them all to be honest. You should try watching all these movies in order like I did. The many Disney movies which came after 'The Little Mermaid' had a villain, but the one which I like was the one from 'The Little Mermaid' named Ursula. She's a sea witch. You should look at her appearance. She looks very nasty. Ursula is very obese. She has a beauty spot or mole on the right side of her mouth. She's always seen wearing make-up. She's the main antagonist. She has a wicked sense of humour. I hate Ursula though. I wanted her defeated. Before the movie, there was an animated series of 'The Little Mermaid', so I'd ask you to watch it before you see the movie. I say that because it all sort of builds-up to it, and you see many of the characters such as Ursula in the series. You don't have to see the animated series, and watching the movie is much easier. The animated series is pretty much unavailable anyway. You can skip it. The movie, though, finally concludes everything. You get to see many of your favourite characters such as Ariel, Chef Louis, Flounder, King Triton, Prince Eric, Scuttle and Sebastian. I also like the dog named Max. I was looking forward to seeing King Triton in the movie. He's my favourite character of 'The Little Mermaid'. He's the ruler of Atlantica. I like King Triton's trident. King Triton has many daughters. Ariel happens to be one of them. In fact, Ariel happens to be his favourite daughter. King Triton arch-enemy happens to be Ursula. King Triton doesn't like humans. King Triton has many powers. King Triton plays a large part in the movie. Ariel, however, wants to meet Prince Eric. She falls in love him. Ariel is a mermaid; Prince Eric is a human. Ariel makes a deal with Ursula, but she's unaware of Ursula's evil plans, so Ariel ends up in trouble. Anyway, the kids will like seeing 'The Little Mermaid'. They'll also like seeing the rest of the Disney movies which I've already mentioned above.
The little mermaid is the movie that put Disney back on track and I understand why the story, songs and characters are all incredible. the animation is stunning and timeless and the story of Ariel is beautiful to watch. Ursula is one of the best Disney villains of all time and Sebastian is a total scene stealer for me. however despite all the fantastic things about this movie ive just never loved it as much as everyone else but its still great.
Another Disney classic with probably bad live action remake incoming. Animation is so good for late 80's.
The Little Mermaid is such a wonderful family friendly movie! It has a GREAT CAST along with the storyline!!!! DOES NOT DISAPPOINT!!! It has love, music/singing, curiosity, laughter throughout the film, A wonderful ending to a phenomenal movie. A+++ Film.
It has nice musical numbers, and the music itself sounds like it belongs underwater with the rhythm and the beat. Ariel's voice actress, Jodi Benson does have a nice singing voice, and the characters are well done and funny. However, the main issue with The Little Mermaid is that the heroine, Ariel is willing to stop seeing her father and sisters and underwater friends forever just to be with an unknown man she hasn't even spoken to. Falling in love with someone on looks when you're giving up your voice for a pair of human legs when you don't even know the guy's name is pretty dumb. Now I know this takes place in that old time, but Ariel focused a whole three days to fall in love with someone and get him to kiss her because they were 'handsome'. It takes more than a few minutes or three days to fall in love. In the scene where she doesn't hesitate to say the famous love story line 'Daddy, I love him!' when she hasn't spoken one word to him.Now overall this is a good movie, but I wouldn't make it one if my all time Disney favorites considering that most princess movies are about love, when The Little Mermaid makes it good over the top some.
This Disney classic, inspired by Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale, tells the story of Ariel. She is a sixteen year old mermaid princess who has always been fascinated with humans and the surface world despite rules forbidding their interaction. One day she swims to a ship and observes the crew. Here she first sees Prince Eric and immediately falls in love. The ship is then wrecked but she saves him; he doesn't see her but when he wakes on a beach he remembers her beautiful voice as she sang to him. Triton, Ariel's father, forbids her from ever going to the surface again but when Ursula, the devious Sea Witch, offers her an opportunity to see Eric again she accepts. There are catches of course; firstly if she doesn't make him fall in love and kiss her within three days she will belong to Ursula and secondly it will cost her voice so she can neither speak nor sing. She is reunited with Eric but getting to love her will be hard; especially as Ursula will use many tricks to prevent it. Along the way she is joined by her friends Flounder, Sebastian the crab and a gull named Scuttle.I found this film to be a real delight; the story may be fairly simple but it provides thrills, laughs, enjoyable songs, a few scary moments and of course romance... all in a film that is suitable for viewers of all ages. The animation is of a high quality with character designs that are quintessential Disney... a pretty princess, a handsome prince, animal sidekicks and a villainess nobody will mistake for one of the good guys! The characters are nicely expressive; even when Ariel can' speak a work it is clear what she is thinking. The story plays out nicely with no scene outstaying its welcome; all leading to an impressive finale. Overall I'd definitely recommend this to fans of animated movies whatever your age... it is a delight.
I saw the bad reviews and gave this film a try anyways. And instantly regretted it. The story(if you can call it that) goes nowhere and even if it did the horrible acting would have you running in the other direction
The Little Mermaid harkens back to the simple, straightforward qualities of Disney's golden era. A classic celebrating the impulsivity of youthful love and the search for a new identity. It's a faithful and brilliant showcase for animation as an enchanting, lively medium; and ushered in a new era of masterpieces from Disney. There's certainly some nostalgia attached to my love for this film but I don't even care...it's a wonderful little movie.
Wow! This film is nearly 30 years and it's still amazing. There is so much I love abiut this film. The characters are all funny and wonderdul, but Ariel is supriaingly my favoutr character in the whoke film. She just seems like a real 16 year old girl. She's funny, but awkward at times. Even though she doesn't speck for a small part of the film, you can just see how she is feeling, via her facial and body expressions. That is nust great animation. The soundtrack is just wonderful and timeless, I could listen to it over and over again. The villan is just wonderfully evil. I love her character design and animation. The humor is possibly one of the best in any disney film. But it is the visual design that really excites me. This film should be watched on bluray and on the biggest screen possibly. I 100% recommend this masterpiece to people of all ages.
Disney was struggling to say the least during the 70s and 80s. The films released during this era are somewhat obscure today and most did only decent (in some cases, awful) at the box office. The Little Mermaid was practically the studio's last hurrah. I'm very thankful it's as good as it is or we may never have experienced the best era of animation, in my opinion -- the Disney Renaissance.The plot of the film is not one of Disney's best, as I don't believe that Ariel (who, granted, is still a likable main character) goes through much of a character arc. It's the cast and the score that really take this film to its greatest heights. Prince Eric was probably my favorite character in the movie as he is the first real compelling Disney prince. Sebastian and Flounder, Ariel's crab and fish companion respectively, are also quite good, though I found that Sebastian's comedy to land more often than Flounder's. The main villain, Ursula, is the most entertaining character in the movie, and is played brilliantly by Pat Carroll.All of the songs in the movie are great, with Under the Sea, Part of Your World, and Poor Unfortunate Souls being the most recognized (and for good reason). I think that my favorite of the bunch is Part of Your World but it attests to the quality of the music that I'm really not sure. The animation in the film is very good but most of the other movies in the Disney Renaissance do it better.Despite my previous comment on the plot, The Little Mermaid is still a very entertaining film, if a bit predictable. The storm scene around the middle of the movie was executed spectacularly as was the opening sequence. In my opinion, the movie starts really finding its footing once Ariel gets on land but the very end (which features a battle with Ursula) is far too rushed.Overall, The Little Mermaid is a great film with some minor faults. I tend to think of it as the one that set the stage for Disney's greatest films as I wouldn't consider it one of my personal favorites from their library. Still, it should definitely be remembered for practically saving Disney's animation division.My Rating: 8.3/10
(not an average of the categories below)Characters: 7/10
Story: 7/10
Acting: 8/10
Score: 8/10
Visuals: 7/10
Bad acting, bad direction, bad cinematography, bad everything. You ruined little mermaid for me.
The Little Mermaid is easily one of my favorite Disney films. It ranks up there with Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, and Hercules for my favorites. This is just one of the most beautiful animated films ever made. Brilliant songs, with brilliant visuals. I grew up with this movie. 8/10
This is the best animation of Disney i ever seen 
Nice songs , funny characters , powerful drama 
Everyone must see this
This is a terrible movie sending a bad message to young girls. This movie is so poorly done, I don't understand why there are so many people who love it.Plot - The story of this movie is incredibly shallow and full of holes. Characters - All of the characters are extremely shallow and cringy. Animation - The animation in this movie is ok. Nothing special. There is nothing about this movie that is done very well. The whole message of this movie is that girls should focus on their appearance and that looking pretty is the only thing that matters. Yes, some of the songs are catchy, but they're all very shallow. I remember watching this movie when I was 4 and being really bored. I watched this more recently because everyone online and at school was obsessing over it for some reason. This movie should not be shown to impressionable children and is terrible.
Almost three decades ago, when I saw this movie for the first time, it's excellent music made it number one on my list of Disney favorites, and it stayed there to this day. 'Under the Sea' is, without a competition, the most catchy Disney song ever and it totally deserved Oscar it won. 'Kiss the Girl' was also nominated, and when two songs from the same movie compete for the same Oscar it's clear how great this soundtrack is. The most beautiful and the most romantic Disney animated flick, with the most singable and catchy songs. Every time I see it I feel like teenager in love.10/10
Wow. What kind of film is this. This is such a boring film and this film is not at all a masterpiece. This film is so childish that only kids will like it and It was so stupid. The acting was a bit okay, the music is fine but the story is stupid. This is probably one of the dumbest Disney movies I saw. 5/10
This was the final film my aunt and I viewed today, again on VHS. I was really elated from this morning to see this, as it begun what many people my brother's age proclaim as the best Disney era. So here lie my thoughts on it.While the story doesn't adapt everything in the Andersen tale, it pulled off some really great humor and magic that made Disney glorious again back in 1989. Almost every scene in this movie ended up taking my mind to places of fascination, which I would say even rival some films I consider a 10. The character development was absurdly strong, providing with it the lessons of knowing the implications of selfishness, and I do think Ursula is one of the better Disney Villains from her complex motives and just being all around awesome. The animation is of a quality I cannot describe; I could say that it conveys vivid environments and character designs, and I could say that it really does upgrade the occasional slapstick and sight gags, but that wouldn't scratch the surface of what Disney has achieved here. I will say right now that only Mary Poppins has a better overall score among all the Disney films I have seen; in the animated canon, though, this takes the cake. The 3 main songs of this movie all deserve to be remembered for years and really do serve as a foreshadowing to the career of the amazing Alan Menken.Any Disney fan or animation historian will want to view this movie for the impact it has made. While I still stand by that the Renaissance actually started with The Great Mouse Detective, this solidified its existence and brought complete stability to the company. Just for that, I want to give this film a special place in my heart. I possess optimism that many of you out there reading this will find at least 2 things to enjoy. For a Disney film, that's well above a compliment, but I feel it meritorious of such.
As a whole The Little Mermaid is fantastic. It is not my favorite from the Disney renaisance, but it definitely is a fantastic underwater adventure. Comparing it to the later Disney greats I came to a conclusion on why I liked it: it made me happy. The Hunchback of Notre Dame is my favorite, because it was thought-provoking and made me think about life, but when in need of cheering up this Mermaid is what I turn to. 
The climax is one of the best in the Disney catalog with the great Ursula being defeated in a pretty awesome way actually! Under The Sea is only one of all the ridiculously catchy songs in the movie and it really deserved those Oscars. While Ursula's song maybe is my least favorite of the villain songs from the great 90's Disney movies it surely is entertaining just like the other songs. But the time Ariel spends on land really shows how passionately the animators worked on the movie. If you haven't, watch it! It is great.
After a few years of making decent, if not exceptional films this was the one that enabled Disney Animation to bounce back on a big scale and launch their 'renaissance' that would last until 2000.This film, which sees a young mermaid dream of being a human, sets a template which lots of the Disney films that followed would stick to.It has great voice acting, some ear grabbing songs that stick with you beyond the end credits, and the animation is great too.It's a classic Disney film for a reason.
One of Disney's best movie. The story is interesting and compelling the music is wonderful and the characters are lovable. This movie is a true classic that people all all ages enjoy. The music is addictive the songs are well written and Jodi Benson has the voice of an angel. Ariel is such a interesting princess, she wants to be on land with the man she loves and instead of sitting around in pity like previous princesses she goes out and makes it happen by making a deal Ursula the Sea Witch. Then when things still don't go her way she stands up to Ursula to save her father and her lover. Eric may be the one that kills Ursula but Ariel is a spitfire who pulls Ursulas hair to save Eric. Of course in Disney cheesy fashion she gets her happy ending but that is Disney magic.
My mother bought the movie for me and I loved it. Ariel does persistently disobey her father, but I must say, her mother's death was at least as much her own fault as the sailor sailing the ship that killed her. Athena should NOT have swum back for that music box, but it has made King Triton hate and fear humans forever and so when he finds out that Ariel rescued a human from drowning he destroys her treasures and Ariel is (quite justifiably) heartbroken., and here we must mention one plot hole, Ariel says 'You don't even know him', and they should have had Prince Eric and Ariel get to know each other Frankly, even to this day I hate King Triton, even though he does give in; his behaviour makes even that make him only the second-best Disney father, and that's being really generous
'The Little Mermaid' is the start of the Disney Renaissance. From then on, Disney makes 'Beauty and the Beast', 'Aladdin', 'The Lion King', 'Mulan' and a lot of other animated musicals adapted from fairy tales. In terms of quality, 'The Little Mermaid' is rather mediocre. It may be the worst Disney film produced during the Renaissance era. Particularly, it changes the tragic ending of Andersen's tale to a happy ending, almost completely destroying the themes and motifs delivered by Andersen.
A favorite since early childhood, The Little Mermaid is truly one of Disney's most distinguished classics. Based on the Hans Christian Anderson story of the same name, this movie is a timely and fun almost-masterpiece.We meet Ariel, a rebellious and passionate teenage mermaid, who is the daughter of the ruler of the sea, King Triton. While at first she seems happy we soon learn that she has a yearning for another world - the human world, above the sea. She is obsessed with humans to the point that in a mad desperation she strikes a deal with Ursula, a sea witch, who will give her human legs in exchange for her voice. Ariel has three days to kiss a human prince or else she will belong to Ursula.The songs are catchy and memorable; tunes such as 'Under the Sea' and 'Part of Your World' are instantly recognizable and you can't help but sing (albeit badly) along to the irresistible melodies. The music itself is also rather grand, too.The characters are fantastic, the main character Ariel is impassioned and surprisingly (for Disney) realistic teenage girl. You completely relate to her problems, and in hindsight her decisions are understandable given her situation (Yes I disagree with complaints about her character - I think she's great). Also, Ursula is one of Disney's finest baddies. Her control over the story and elegant charisma create one of their greatest villains. My only issue is that perhaps if Ariel had shown more remorse for her actions, she would have been more of a good character (she doesn't really learn a lesson).All in all, while not their best film, The Little Mermaid truly ranks up with some of Disney's highest classics, a personal, fun and dramatic animated adventure. Filled with sing-along songs, beautiful animation, spritely and memorable characters and an intriguing plot, The Little Mermaid is not to be missed :)
Credited with really starting Disney's animated Renaissance, my wife was determined to make me watch this with her over the festive holiday. How could I resist?Adapted from the Hans Christian Anderson fairytale, it's excellent family entertainment, with a suitably sympathetic pair of young lovers at the heart of its story, a disagreeably bad villain in the guise of the wicked witch of the sea and a fine soundtrack of catchy songs perfectly in simpatico with the plot.Of course the under-the-sea settings with its exotic creatures give the animators plenty of scope for colour, imagination and flair and they don't let us down. I wasn't sure the story required that Ariel actually lose her voice for a significant period of time, but if it's in the original story (and I haven't checked) then fair enough, I suppose.There's nothing earth-shatteringly original in this movie which looks backward to Disney's glorious fairy-tale legacy of youthful innocence being corrupted by some evil menace going all the way back to Snow White, but modernised as here with some good jokes and today's music, it happily updates the studio's legacy and of course set the path for the great successes the studio and its PIXAR affiliate has enjoyed ever since.
This is a masterwork for Disney Studios. The story alone would be enough to carry this. We have great undersea characters whose level of knowledge is restricted to their environment, naturally. We have a nasty villain, Ursula, who is jealous and pained by her own appearance and awful voice. We have a longing for something that is not easily understood by the other characters. Take a really neat plot and throw in some amazing songs. I mean Broadway songs. Animation has become its own Broadway with very little tweaking. Ariel is a fully developed character with wants and needs. She is a strong 'woman.' One may find the need for a man a bit sexist at times, but it is more of a longing. We then have a willingness to give up everything (her voice in particular) to experience what it would be like to be a woman. Looking back on this film, we see the die is cast for success after success with some of the best pop music ever written.
The Little Mermaid Review The author, or director, of The Little Mermaid is Ron Clements and John Musker. These two directors are known for their collaborative films. Both are American screenplay writers and directors. One of their specialties is animated films, especially for Disney. For example: Aladdin, Princess and the Frog, Hercules, and Disney's new princess movie Mona.In their film The Little Mermaid, the main character is Ariel (Jodi Benson), who is a curious and adventurous young girl just waiting to embark on a life changing journey. Ariel is always forgetting big events and doing things she knows she isn't supposed to do, but in this she discovers a prince, Eric, (Christopher Barnes) at sea. One night while she is swimming along she hears a ruckus at sea level and swims up to find the princes' boat on fire. In the end of this dramatic, nail biting scene She winds up saving his life and taking him to shore. This is where their unique love story begins. Ariel ends up selling her soul to a wicked sea witch, Ursula, (Pat Carroll) in order to become human. Ariel faces many trials after this and almost doesn't recover, but her father and all her friends come together and everything works out for the better in the end.This movie takes place under the sea off the coast of Denmark. The underwater sea village is called Atlantica. Which is a beautiful city of mer-people who live in peace with the ocean.This film is a digital master piece, it was created well with great effects and animation for its time. In this movie there are a plethora of wonderfully composed songs, formed by Alan Menken. So many iconic songs that are referenced to children and people every day are derived from this movie. Part of Your World, Under the Sea, Poor Unfortunate Souls, Les Possions, and Kiss the Girl are all well-known songs that are from The Little Mermaid. The music and lyrics of this film help evoke emotion is the audience and really add to the plot of the story. For example, when Ariel and Eric are in the river on a romantic date the song, Kiss the Girl, builds up the feeling of true love. This movie has a specific genre and honestly it is Disney. Disney falls under the children and family category. Most all Disney films are made based on magic, fun, and happiness which are all family friendly characteristics. This movie has a rating of G, and that stands for 'all ages admitted.' The only part of this movie that is even remotely questionable are the scenes with Ursula, the end scene where she morphs into a giant creature. Overall, I believe that this is a wonderful, well developed, kid friendly movie. It has such a wonderful moral and message to share with kids and families and I would recommend it to all young children.
This movie is a classic that everyone has heard about. It is an original concept, combining both the worlds of the mythical sea and the magical kingdom off-shore. This story follows Ariel, a 16 year old willing to explore, who has seen her magical one true love. He is however a human, which is forbidden by her father, King Triton. She then makes a deal with Princess Ursula that she can become a human for three days, giving up her voice and her ownership of herself if she does kiss Prince Eric before the end of the third day. This movie is a classic Disney movie with a refreshing plot. The musical score is amazing in this film and I must admit, I caught myself humming to the music. It is definitely simple to understand, and more geared towards young girls, however is plausible as long as you like Disney films. A must see for Disney lovers.
Well as your read in the summary of the review, the concept of this movie is actually not bad, however there is one very big flaw in my opinion.I cannot stress this enough the flaw I have with the movie is completely subjective and also not one that most people seem to have, since this movie has a good rating of 7.6 as of now.Now the flaw is: Ariel. Yes that is right I really haven no idea exactly what it is that makes me dislike her character. Probably since she goes completely against her fathers instructions, especially since he has a point. Humans tend to fear the unknown, and her existence would cause a riot and would not only endanger her life but also the life of everyone in that city( I don't know the name, because I just couldn't sit through this movie), which makes her completely selfish. Finally it is funny to me that she wants to live in our world, which is hell compared to hers. I know that she eventually marries the prince, which makes this point invalid, but she wanted to live in our world before she even met Eric.Now lets talk about the positive the concept of a mermaid falling in love with a human is definitely interesting and the execution in my opinion is also good. For this reason I would award around seven to ten stars, and I tend to be rather lenient on animations, so it would get 10 stars, next there is the animation itself, which was really good as expected from Disney, and finally the music was superb, which was also expected back in those days from Disney.However this does not change the fact that characters are more important than any element, since a good story, such as this was spoiled, because of Ariel's character, while a bad story can still be saved by good characters. In this case that bad character also happened to be the one that got most screen time considering she was the story's main protagonist. Which is why my final review is 3/10 stars.
The Little Mermaid is stunning. It's absolutely beautiful. This is a movie that I liked and couldn't place my finger on why. I found it bothering that it seemed to give the message that looks are more important than personality... but as the story progresses I think it becomes obvious that Ariel isn't a hero and has been making childish decisions the whole time and that to me is what makes this so spectacular. Throughout, you buy Ariel as a character in such a beautiful story. This movie so perfectly portrays innocence. It also shows her father have a great arc about learning to let go. Aside from having a well told story, the music is some of the best Disney has to offer. Every one I could listen to on repeat. Lastly, the art Disney offers in the Golden Age is breathtaking. The Little Mermaid has such beautiful visuals (especially Ariel ;)) that put you 'Under the sea.' Definitely see this masterpiece!
I think this movie is so hot I cannot barely watch. Because this movie is best before Hercules and Lion King. what you want more from Little mermaid? besides this movie will blow your mind a way! come on would you rather watch little mermaid or Aladdin? for me this movie way hotter then jalapeños peppers. this movie is way too impressive before Aladdin and Lion king who would make movie like Little mermaid.this movie is so impressive I almost feel like I ate hot Cheetos. this movie soothes me and make me comfortable. but only part I cannot handle is Father and daughter's argue. this movie is so adventurous you may like this movie more than Aladdin.
The Little Mermaid (1989): Dir: Ron Clements, John Musker / Cast: Jodi Benson, Pat Carroll, Samuel E. Wright, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Buddy Hackett: One of the very best Disney animations ever made. The fact that the title describes the mermaid as little indicates that she will accomplish great things. Her name is Ariel and she is sixteen and the daughter of a sea ruler. Like any teenager she is rebellious yet fun loving. When she takes a forbidden swim to the surface and rescues a Prince from drowning. When he awakens he remembers only her voice. Ariel dreams of becoming human so when she encounters the evil sea witch Ursula she exchanges her tail for legs but Ursula obtains her voice. The Prince must kiss her within three days or she becomes Ursula's slave. Other characters include a crab named Sebastian who sings, 'Under the Sea.' Directors Ron Clements and John Musker visualize her wondrous sea world with great colorful detail. Voice talents include Jodi Benson whom provides the voice of Ariel. Christopher Daniel Barnes voices the Prince. Pat Carroll voices the evil sea Queen Ursula as one of the very best of Disney villains. Samuel E. Wright voices Sebastian the crab. Buddy Hackett even lends his legendary voice to this extravagant, glorious adventure. Strong theme about raising rebellious inexperienced teens. Score: 10 / 10
(I present to you: My 1,500th review. And I just *had* to pick a movie that has been Part of my World for almost 30 yearsCheers!)It won't cost muchJust my blood.Starting with 1988 and deep into 1989 I began my love affair with cinema. To date, that last year of the 80s is my favorite twelve months of movies of any year. I saw everything, anything I could use my little cash on. Some repeatedly and some I would cherish for life. Of all the ones I loved so much: Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Batman, Lethal Weapon 2 and (my first ever James Bond feature) Licence to Kill, late in the year would come a movie that would mold me, bring me joy, heart and love: The Little Mermaid.It would do so much to my life, but for starters, it would get me hooked on Disney. I never really grew up on Disney and at 15, in 1989, I had seen some Disney 'cartoons,' but never was the biggest fan. Until November 1989. I loved this movie. Everysinglesecond of it. For the time, it was inventive, explosive and offered both a fantastic script and daring visuals. I was captivated and sang along to the words of the songs that would stay with me for nearly 30 years.To date, today, on January 20, 2016, watching this movie for the first time in a decade or more and probably the 100th time, all the same feelings, joy, tears, smiles and laughter were all the same. As if I was watching this masterpiece for the first time.Yes, I sang right along with each musical segment. But, I also laughed out loud, even as an adult at the classic and harmless humor. (They didn't need to make this PG-13 for adults to partake like they do nowadays.) I still loved every bit of it, even after almost three decades had passed since my first viewing.Teen Mermaid Ariel dreams of something more, a grass-is-greener scenario, and with her father inadvertently pushing her into the magic of the witch, she gets her wish. Butwith a price. It's easy now to see how this inspired many more Disney animated features and attractions. And it's almost forgotten with great efforts since, including the follow-ups like Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, The Lion King and pretty much all of Pixar's films. Too bad. Ariel started it all and will always hold the biggest portion of my heart from anything Disney can throw at me.FunnyI have barely mentioned the music above. The music. The MAGNIFICENT MUSIC. The incredible songs that I cannot help but sing out- loud and even dance with as if I were a child even younger than when I first saw this. It's hard to pick a favorite, but the top two are definitely 'Part of Your World' and 'Poor Unfortunate Souls.' That's not to diminish the excellent other tracks that I still sing with the top of my lungs, but those mean the most to me for both heart and cleverness. So, the music's great. So is the score, the dialogue, screenplay, cinematography and heart. In fact, there isn't a flaw here and no child or adultshould be denieddown where it's wettertake it from me.***Final thoughts: Hilarious, but not really at the time, but the viewing in theatres I remember the most was 10 years after the film's initial run. In classic Disney fashion, they re-released The Little Mermaid back in the theatres for its 10th Anniversary and I just had to go back to seait again on the big screen. That day, sometime in 1999, I was working on my homemade computer and cut my right, middle finger. Pretty bad – tons of blood lost, more than I'd ever see leave my body before or since. Though a pretty deep cut in my fingerprint, I chose just to let it bleed, bandage it – multiple times – and go see The Little Mermaid again with hopes it would stop bleeding before the feature began that Sunday. Rarely will I recall that experience, nor look directly at my middle, right finger, but when I do see that scar left, 17½ years ago, I will always be reminded of The Little Mermaid. She might not have actually cut me, but Ariel became a part of me for life.
Just got the Diamond Edition and watched this in Blu-Ray, so what better time to review it than now.For the maybe one of you reading this who hasn't seen The Little Mermaid: it is the tale of Ariel, a sixteen-year-old mermaid who falls in love with the dashing Prince Eric, much to the dismay of her father, King Triton, who forbids her from going up on land. So what is she to do but make a deal with the sea witch, Ursula? Having three days to- without her voice- make Eric fall in love with her or join Ursula's posse of poor, unfortunate souls, she tries her hardest and is helped by the King's hand, Sebastian the crab, and her friend, Flounder the... um, flounder. But Ursula does not play fair, and has a sleeve full of tricks.I won't spoil what happens, but again, you already know.This is the film that kickstarted the Disney Renaissance, that brought The Studio That Walt Built back from the brink of oblivion and to artistic and financial prominence. Imaginative to the core, it was a major step forward for Western animation. All modern Disney movies are built off the Little Mermaid as much as the Bambi or Snow White, perhaps more.I'd go into the songs, but what's the point: you all know how good they are. My personal favorite is Part of Your World (also Ariel's leitmotif, if you listen) but everyone has their own favorite. They have become cultural touchstones for everyone over a certain age, a light in a pit of darkness. Alan Menken is one of the greatest composers of modern times, and I will hear no word to the contrary.Ariel is my favorite Disney princess of all time, and certainly my favorite of the 2-D era. They do not try to make her too much of a role model for girls and thus too perfect. She is imperfect and there is nothing wrong with that. She has so much personality, so much energy, so much curiosity. Anyone who doesn't like here has always struck me as someone that I want to stay far, far away from.If you were wondering, the Diamond edition is definitely worth it. The animation was beautiful for its time, and it still holds up today, but with the boost of digital restoration, it pops. The water is so blue, Ariel's hair is so red, Flounder is so yellow, and so on and so forth. If nothing else, it's worth buying just for that ten-second clip on the menu screen, of Ariel bathed in the light of a full moon. This movie is eighty-five minutes long. I could stare at that clip for that long and then some.If you expected me to say something negative about this, sorry to disappoint you. It doesn't quite have the awe factor of The Lion King, but it is a starkly innovative film that has impressed generations already, and will continue to impress more generations in the coming years.
The Little Mermaid is the start of Disney's renaissance era which would continue throughout the 90's. It established tropes that would stay with the majority of the company's film there on out: Don't isolate yourself to your own kind ; Go out and meet new different kind of people ; Don't always obey your overprotective family ; True love conquers all ; Princes and princesses are cool. It's a great kids movie that I enjoy watching to this day. Sebastian the crab is one of the better side kicks. The action scenes in the third act are energetic. It has the classic songs like 'Under the Sea'. Ursula is one of the more unique Disney villains. She, unlike later Disney's villains, doesn't invade by force, but rather manipulates and persuades Ariel with a Faustian bargain. Some will find Ariel's character, who puts the pursuit of a man over her own voice, dated - I understand. But it's nonetheless a really entertaining watch.
The Little Mermaid is a movie where a 16-year-old mermaid princess struggles to become a human so she can have a love relationship with a land prince, Eric. In order to accomplish this, she must battle a sea witch, give up her voice, and go against her father's wishes to remain a mermaid and have nothing to do with humans. The mermaid princess, who goes by the name of Ariel, has three days to kiss Prince Eric or else she loses everything, including her soul and voice, to a sea witch named Ursula. Find out if Ariel survives and gets to live her dream.This movie was very fun and would be great for a family movie since it is rated G and made by Disney. Little girls that love mermaids would also love this movie. This movie was great, expect things got a little too dangerous at the end and promotes war and violence. Besides that, many good morals or messages were spread throughout the movie. Disney did not disappoint with this movie and created another classic Disney princess movie. I highly recommend this movie if you have not seen it already and tell your friends about it also.
This movie used to scare me when I was little, it was too horrid to watch. Too scary for kids, and a little too dumb for adults. The story was decent, but not as great as it could have been. It still has a few good songs, good characters. The animation was okay, not great. Ariel is a beautiful character, she makes the movie fresh at times. Sebastian and Flounder are well fitting characters, too, and the villain is very easy to hate. Overall, do I like the film? Not really. Do I hate it? Not Really. Watch The Lion King, Tarzan, or Brother Bear, those are the better Disney movies!
This is by far the absolute worst movie I've ever seen. An absolute flop for Disney at the box office, and it does NOT hold up today. Flat development on the characters especially the red-haired brat, a storyline that could use better development and music that makes nails on a chalkboard sound like Mozart. And need I bring up the controversies about a priest and a piece of coral. Kids, avoid this movie, it will traumatize you. The original fairy tale had much better story to it because it was dark and created by a genius. You feel sympathetic for the mermaid maybe in the original text, but in the case of Disney, they made her a spoiled brat who does not do anything to get the rewards she gets in the end.
I love all of the character and songs in this my favourite being kiss the girl, I just love songs that are duets but you don't see the main characters actually sing but the one that's singing the song is how those characters fell in that situation and that's why I like the I see the light scene in tangled. Ursula is a great Disney villain when I was a kid and saw the scene where she was big and taking over the ocean scared the living s**t out of me.I would have given this 10 stars but the only thing I wish happened in this movie was that if at the end of the kiss the girl scene Ariel and Eric actually kissed, but beside that it's still one of the best Disney films and it started the Disney renaissance which was form 1989 to 1999.
The end of the 80s was a good time for Disney Studios. They had managed to avoid closing down with The Great Mouse Detective, Oliver & Company had beaten The Land Before Time at the box office, and Who Framed Roger Rabbit had been a huge success. And it's that last movie that would lead directly to the creation of this one, and the beginning of Disney Renaissance, the undisputed Golden Age of Disney Animation. And the reason is that they managed to bring over a lot of the animators that had worked on Roger, thus bringing a lot of new blood and energy into their animation team. Add in the musical virtuoso Alan Menken and you had all the right ingredients for something magical.And this is the first result of all that labour, love and effort. Adapting a story of the same name by Hans Christian Andersen, it tells about a little mermaid - what a twist - named Ariel, the youngest daughter of the sea king. Ariel is the loveliest of the daughters and the one with the most beautiful voice. Nevertheless she's a problematic child to raise, for she's endlessly fascinated by the human world above the waves, which has long been the source of misery for the sea folk. Things start to unravel as Ariel saves a drowning prince from a storm, naturally falling head over heels for this tall, dark stranger. As Disney princesses do.The Little Mermaid is the source and well of a lot of things we have come to accept as Disney hallmarks. The Broadway musical style of songs, the fairy tale structure and source materials, the lavishly lush animation, the humorous side characters, the romance, the prince and the princess, the themes of yearning, acceptance, hope and dreams. Naturally other Disney films had had these things before, but in this film they all came together and took the shape and form we all recognize today.And it's a very good example of that classic Disney formula. Especially on the musical side of things. This film has one of the best soundtracks out of all the Disney films. All the songs are classics, they're all catchy beyond belief and instantly recognizable by any member of modern society. Kiss the Girl is probably my favourite, closely followed by Poor Unfortunate Souls, but they're all great.It's more than likely that you've all already seen this film, but if by some miracle you haven't What are you waiting for?
Yes I know Ariel wasn't a very good role model for young girls. She did nothing compared to Mulan and Pocahontas, but honestly as a little girl it's hard to feel passion for girls achievements the way you do when you're actually old enough to understand how much of an impact they really made. Ariel was honestly kind of whiny, but she acted just as a head-over-heels 16 y/o girl would. I know I would've acted that way at least. The more notable characters in this film such as Sebastian and the chef are what really made the movie. 'Les Poisson's' was such a catchy song, even if the message itself was a little dark. Ursula is one of the best Disney villains hands down.
Under the Sea - a beautiful melodic song fully deserving of its Oscar.every time I watch this film and in case you haven't gathered already i am a big Disney fan it never fails to entertain me.The music score - amazing, the animation amazing, the story - heart warming and touching.16 year old Ariel fascinated with life on land breaks the law of the sea and visits the surface, she then falls in love with a prince, she makes a deal with a witch to become human for three days. As always things don't go according to plan.A beautiful family friendly story that everybody in the family will love again and again. If you haven't seen this film you really should you will enjoy it. And so will your kids, friends, neighbours everybody any anybody. Fantastic.
Ill be honest, i didn't have much enthusiasm for this movie, not that i didn't like it, but just that i hadn't seen it, and the premise didn't really interest me. of course, that was 5 years ago, and ever since then, i decided to watch it. i acquired it, but kept putting it off for time. then my best friend strongly recommended it to me and i decided to give It a go. i had the exact same reaction as when i watched Frozen. i didn't mind it very much the first time. i fell i missed something so i watch it a 2nd time. i watch it about 4 more times and i adore it almost as much as Frozen. The characters are all memorable and lovable, there are some kickass musical numbers and there are too many great visuals in this movie to simply ignore it. to think this started the Disney renaissance is not a surprise, although it is a surprise that like frozen, Disney was reinvigorated by Hans Christian Anderson. The story is that Ariel, the titular Little mermaid, is aching to go the the surface against the desires of her father, king Triton. she has a collection of human memorabilia and even is in love with a human, prince Eric. the evil sea witch Ursula finds out, and after a truly awful scene where Kig triton destroys everything she owns, she manipulates Ariel by asking for her voice in exchange for legs, as well as a contract that she must kiss Eric in three days, or be her property forever. simple story, but its the execution that truly sells it for me.why did i love it? well, unlike most movies i love, there is very little actually wrong with this movie. this is a kind of movie that can only be appreciated once you see it several times, so u can understand all the hidden underlying messages that get covered by unfair assumptions. most people hate this film for being a bad example on little girls. on one hand , i could understand that, seeing as Ariel wants to leave her family for a man. however, Ariel actually does NOT do this...yes, she does love him, but her primary interest is getting to the surface. she wants to explore and see the sights, find a way to her happiness. other people criticize the prince. he simply falls in love with a mute girl on the beach. i disagree. he subconsciously knows that this is the girl that saved her life, and even from her looks, she is quite expressive and plenty can be taken about her character from her mute scenes alone. also, he actually helps Ariel defeat Ursula at the end. he doesn't just do it himself like prince Phillip, or just sit down and do nothing like prince..uhh...whatever the princes name in Cinderella was. every detail of this movie is something that i can tell was chosen carefully and lovingly, to create this magnificent product. i think its blatantly obvious, but this is why i give a perfect ten to this perfect film.
The Little Mermaid (1989) *** 1/2 (out of 4)Mermaid princess Ariel always dreams what it must be like being human and after getting in trouble by her father, the King, she decides to take an bet with an evil witch. The deal allows her to be human for three days but she must make the man she loves love her in return.THE LITTLE MERMAID was an incredibly important picture for Disney because they animated features were really lacking any classics but this film came along and put them on the map and it would kick off a tremendous run of titles that would include BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, ALADDIN and THE LION KING. This here was certainly a return to the highest form for the studio and it's easy to see why this was such a hit back in the day and continues to gather new fans with each passing year.All of the classic Disney things can be found here. You've got a good story. You've got a beautiful princess who wishes for something more. You've got a terrific villain. You've got a great group of supporting characters. Then there's the beautiful animation, the wonderful songs and of course there's just a good-nature that runs throughout the picture. The fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen certainly fits in well with Disney as it contains a story that's easy to follow and the studio just gave us characters to like and care for.The Ariel character is just so sweet-natured that you can't help but hope she gets her dreams. Then there's the crab and Flounder who are both funny in their own way and of course there's a rather dumb seagull who can't really do anything right. The animation is some of the best stuff the studio did since their films in the 1940s as it's just so colorful that it really does creature a terrific world and the 'Under the Sea' song really captures a certain spirit that makes it one of the best songs from the studio.
The Disney Renaissance is one of the best recognised periods of the Disney animation studios, where Disney released many of its most creative, successful and all round incredible films. Whilst the start of this renaissance could arguably have its roots in Who Framed Roger Rabbit, the Little Mermaid is definitely the film that led Disney towards its focus on a Broadway musical style and brought Disney animation back to the high quality that it had been lacking in previous years. It brought to life an incredible fantasy world though a mixture of great characters, stunning animation and quite possibly the best soundtrack that Disney has ever had. We get to follow Ariel, the youngest daughter of king Triton, who has become enamoured with the creativity of the human world and set her eyes on the dashing prince Eric. Whilst she longs to be part of the human world she becomes forbidden by her father to ever make contact with them. However in defiance of her father, she turns to the evil sea witch Ursula who creates a spell where she may walk on land to find her true love, but on the condition that if she fails to get the kiss of true love will become a slave to Ursula. Ariel is well above any Disney Princess that had come before her, with a genuine desire for adventure and her willingness to defy her father making her a very endearing and lovable figure. Just watching her childlike innocence and wonder as she discovers more of the human world makes her a real delight to watch. Similarly, Ursula is also up there with some of the best Disney villains. She comes over as being such a sinister Machiavellian character who manipulates emotions exploiting Ariel's youthful recklessness and longing for love in Poor unfortunate Souls. There's also a lot of great supporting characters like Flounder and Sebastian that keep the laughs coming in fast and strong. All of the animation in the film is nothing short of Disney magic. Every painstaking detail that must have taken countless hours to draw the stunning underwater environments was truly worth it creating something superior to anything that had come before it. From the small details of bubbles floating up to the sight of the sunlight hitting the ocean floor, no expense was spared and a true thing of beauty was created because of it. Beyond this the way in which the characters move throughout is also something to behold. The lifelike movements of Ariel as she gracefully flows through the ocean is wonderfully detailed with incredible touches of how her body sways through the water to her hair floating as she moves. Then there's the soundtrack and from the jig score you hear when Ariel first sees Eric to the big song pieces, the entire film is packed with some of Disney's most memorable and enjoyable songs. One highlight is obviously Under the Sea, being one of the catchiest tunes for kids to sing and working as a lively upbeat reggae tune. Though as great as Under the Sea is, Part of Your World is quite possibly one of the most stunning musical sequences put to film. It is quite possibly my favourite Disney moment as every emotional beat of the song really hits its mark and is a great song to showcase the stunning animation the film has to offer with the image of Ariel reaching to the surface being given a special place in my memory.I loved this film as a child and I have only grown to appreciate it even more with age. It's music and imagery are worthy of all the acclaim it receives, being just as strong today as it ever was.
When I recently rewatched this film after 20 years, it struck me that I enjoyed it every bit as much, if not more, than when I was a child.Disney created in Ariel, one of their greatest princesses. Yes, she was impulsive and headstrong, but she was also, inquisitive, loving and kindhearted.One of the great pleasures of this movie, was remembering how great animation looked before the days of Pixar(although Disney films still look great too!). In my opinion, the animation holds up very well 26 years later.The cast of characters was extremely enjoyable - evil Ursula, funny Sebastian, loyal Flounder and of course, the man Ariel loved, Prince Eric.What truly made this movie a classic was the songs, particularly Under the Sea and Part of Your World, which Jodi Benson done a absolutely perfect job on.The Little Mermaid belongs in the top five all time Disney films in terms of both the movie and the soundtrack. I will always enjoy this film and I can only wish that a new generation would appreciate it like it deserves to be!
I saw this movie for the first time when i was 5 years old, and to this day it's still one of my favorites.The animation is gorgeous, the songs are great and extremely catchy (I still sing Part Of Your World regularly) and the characters are extremely likable.The Little Mermaid was a huge influence to me as a child, Ariel was and still is a great role model to young girls everywhere.In my opinion this is the best film Disney has made so far, always cheers me up and makes me feel happy.10/10.
Kicking off what is now known as the Disney Renaissance (following a brutal decade of flops and underachievers), The Little Mermaid reignited some of that old Disney magic, with some beautiful and lovingly-drawn animation and a good old-fashioned, yet familiar, story. Based on the fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen, it's a tale of a beautiful princess who falls in love with a dashing prince, with the snag being that the girl, Ariel (voiced by Jodi Benson) has a flipper, lives under the sea, and is best friends with a Rastafarian crab and a cowardly tropical fish.King of the sea Triton (Kenneth Mars) is obeyed by all in his realm, with the exception of the most important person in his life, his daughter Ariel. She has bigger dreams and is obsessed with the deadly world of ships and brutal men above the sea surface. One day, she swims to the world above and spots dashing prince Eric (Christopher Daniel Barnes), who she instantly falls in love with. Desperate to escape her father who forbids her wild adventures, she is taken by two eels, Flotsam and Jetsam (both voiced by Paddi Edwards) to Ursula (Pat Carroll), a sea witch with tentacles like an octopus. In exchange for Ariel's beautiful voice, Ursula transforms her into a human, but she must receive true love's kiss within three days or else she will turn back into a mermaid and belong to Ursula's garden of creepy souls.The fact that The Little Mermaid is very much in the style of 'classic' Disney works both for and against the film. On one hand, it's beautifully drawn with memorable songs ('Under the Sea' is a particular stand-out), but it also treads the overly familiar fairytale tropes of princes, princesses, witches and the kiss of 'true love'. However, it brought Disney into the modern era. Ariel is not just a la-di-da maiden who enjoys cleaning whilst singing sickly tunes; she is independent and slightly wild, eager to explore the mysterious world she does not belong to. Her companions are also welcome, with crab Sebastian (Samuel E. Wright) providing many laughs, especially in his efforts to escape a pompous chef who wants to cook and serve him. It's perfectly likable throughout, but Disney wouldn't find it's true magic again until two years later.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
The Little Mermaid is my favourite all time Disney movie and it is truly a Disney classic. The characters in this film are spectacular and entertaining. Ariel is my favourite Disney princess and Eric is my favourite prince. Ursula is my third favourite Disney villain and I love the soundtrack as well. part of your world is one of my favourite Disney songs and the plot for this story is fantastic as well as the animation which is Flawless. I have loved this movie forever and is a vital part of my childhood and I used to watch it all the time growing up. This is one of Disney's best movies and launched the start of the Disney Rennaisance and breathed life back into Disney after some box office failures like The Black Cauldron and Oliver and company. I absolutely Love this film to pieces and I always will! I highly recommend you see this Movie, it is one of the top 10 best Disney movies ever made and this is a film that everyone should see because it is so perfect and a legendary film that everyone will enjoy every time they see it! 10/10
It was 25 years ago this very day I first saw this filmand despite things that have happened all these years it is still one of my favorite films and a film that is at times VASTLY underrated as well as a little overratedBut mostly underratedNo the film is not perfect for NO Disney film is something is wrong in any of them no matter how trivial and this one is no exceptionWhy does Ariel want to be human? (not because of the 'hot' guy he just was the point of no return she was into humanity before he entered her life) Why could Eric not become a merman? Why did she not write in the sand?etcBut for all of its faults it deserves more respect for it redefined animation in general and why animated films would get more favorable reveiews and accolotesgonna watch some of it nowAND THAT'S MY TWO CENTS
I've never been a Disney fan, even as a little kid I knew it was a load of commercialized garbage. The Little Mermaid is okay, if not totally predictable, for a children's story... but it's lacking in many areas. The plot is pretty basic, just a romance story, with not the best values to be teaching kids (changing who you are just for some guy you hardly know, great moral, eh)? The voice cast wasn't bad but the soundtrack was terrible, this cheery, high-pitched, almost whiny singing that makes you want to lean over and throw up in the nearest trash can or something. The animation wasn't bad, but the plot was so predictable you already know what'll happen right away. It honestly isn't worth your time unless you're six years old.
Searching For a Whole New WorldJust imagine falling in love with someone from a completely different world. Would you try and make it work? In the Disney movie, The Little Mermaid, a young mermaid did everything that she could to live happily ever after with a young human prince. This movie is an animated fantasy and would generally be for young children and more aimed at the girls, but I think it's a great for everyone. As you would expect for all movies like this one, there are certain expectations that should be met: good character introduction and role, underlying life lessons, and music as well as talking. The Little Mermaid is worth watching it: follows expectations, its entertaining, and has a great story line—easy to follow and fun for everyone—with life lessons within the movie.The Little Mermaid has several characters; the main characters are introduced well and there is never question on who is who. They all have their own role in the movie and there is just enough to keep track of but not so many that you lose track of them. Ariel is the main character and is s strong girl who takes risks to get attain what she strives to achieve. Some may argue that the bad character, Ursula, is too scary for young children and that the ending was changed making it not as good. But the ending was changed to make it more kid friendly and many people don't know the original version in the first place. Also it may be a bit frightening and make kids jump, but there is nothing bad that happens to main characters.The movie has many underlying lessons that are portrayed as well as common issues that young girls come across in their life time. First of all, Ariel and her father don't get along to well, and he is against her falling in love with a human. They argue and after giving her a little trust and legs to walk on land, Ariel proves the love between her and the prince is real. Another part that is displaying a common problem with young girls is their looks and worry about looking good. Ariel mentions her beauty and her looks in several scenes throughout the movie hoping the prince is happy with them; she later realizes this is not as important as true love.Lastly, the story line and music along with the movie is well put together. This movie is similar to a musical because all of the songs and music played goes along with the story line and the lyrics either support the story or add on to it. When she is striving to be with the prince and hoping one day she will be able to, she breaks out into a song that supports what she is trying to do. Some of the lyrics say, 'I don't know when/ I don't know how/ But I know something's starting right now/ Watch and you'll see/ Someday I'll be/ Part of Your World.' She wants so badly to be part of the prince's world on land rather than her world in the water. The music ties everything together and keeps you focused on the movie.Overall, this is a great movie for kids and families to watch. Ariel takes risks and is strong as she changes from the underwater world to the on land world. I would give it 8 out of 10 stars and would recommend those who haven't seen it to watch it if they get a chance.
Ariel is a mermaid princess curious about the mysterious human life on land. She collects various objects with her fish friend Flounder which the clueless Scuttle the seagull misidentifies. Her father King Triton is not happy with her fascination. The crab Sebastian is the king's courtier composer and he is assigned to keep an eye on Ariel. Ariel goes to spy on Prince Eric celebrating his birthday on his ship. He's looking for the right girl. His ship runs into a storm and Eric is thrown overboard. Ariel rescues him and leaves when he regains consciousness. He remembers her beautiful singing. King Triton finds out and destroys her salvage objects. Two eels named Flotsam and Jetsam take Ariel to Ursula the sea witch who strikes a deal with her. She trades her voice for a pair of legs for 3 days. She must get a true love's kiss before the third sunset to remain human or else she'll return to be a mermaid belonging to Ursula. It turns out that Ursula has an even darker plot.This could be seen as a movie for little girls. There's validity to that viewpoint. It's just a very well made movie for little girls. There's nothing wrong with that. The songs are terrific. Ariel is one of the most lively adorable compelling Disney princesses. Ursula is a great villain. And the animal sidekicks are lots of fun.
I think that this Mermaid guy is a pretty good picture. It is very beautiful with many colors. I really like colors. And this picture has many. Characters also have colors. Like Flumbri. That is my favorite character, He is like blue and yellow. That are my favorite colors to. He is also a table in my school. Many people have colors on table. I like colors. I like Flumbri. These picture should have a sequel with more Flumbri. These picture also have drag people. Like the bad coal-crab witch. I do not like these guy. Him made me cry. But Mermaid is good man. Him save the ocean and everyone be happy. I also like Flumbri. What a great guy. He is also a table. Table is brown, not very colorful but happy like Flumbri. Hello Thank you Bless My name be HjörturPS. Flumbri is a fun guy
'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs' was a first step for Disney and a giant leap for animation. No other movie would share the same historical significance, until 1989, the year of 'The Little Mermaid', less a giant leap than a big dive that would splash the audience and create a new wave of animated movies, a new age known now as 'Disney Renaissance'.And 'Renaissance' is the word because it's truly a rebirth of animation after thirty years during which cost-cutting, Xerox processes and images-recycling lowered the very standards of perfectionism that forged Disney's legend. 'Little Mermaid' put an end to that period, starting with the story. Adapted from Hans Christian Andersen's most famous work, it is the first Disney movie based on a fairy tale after 'Sleeping Beauty', 30 years before, which means a whole generation of kids was deprived from princesses and magical stories, and it was time to make a change.A darling for trivia fans, 'The Little Mermaid' is the most expensive Disney movie made after Pinocchio and the first Oscar-nominated one since 'The Rescuers' in 1977. It's also the film that reintroduced a new craving for musicals thanks to the fantastic Calypso numbers lead by Sebastian, the crab maestro, and the unforgettable 'Part of your world'. 'Mermaid' would become the first Disney Golden Globe nominated for Best Musical / Comedy, a feat only surpassed by 'Beauty and the Beast' two years later, not only nominated for a Golden Globe, but also an Oscar for Best Picture. Yet had 'The Little Mermaid' failed at the box-office, we probably wouldn't have 'Beauty and the Beast', 'Aladdin' or 'The Lion King'.But how could 'The Little Mermaid' ever fail? It's infinitely superior to whatever was made after 'Sleeping Beauty', the final masterpiece of an era where Disney had already pushed the envelope. 'One Hundred and One Dalmatians' and its millions of dark spots was still an impressive work but then, 'The Sword and the Stone' started recycling images, and Disney buffs know all about the dancing sequences from 'Robin Hood' and 'The Aristocrats'. Don't get me wrong, Disney never made a really bad film, and my favorite, 'The Jungle Book' happens to be from the 60's. However, as far as animation was concerned, there was no new Disney milestone, and most movies were made of sketchy images and stories lacking that universal appeal.The first serious attempt to recreate the old-school magic was 'The Fox and the Hound' in 1981 but the film had a vague homely feeling that didn't bring the expected amount of escapism, there were no appealing songs and no risky moves à la Mufasa in 'The Lion King'. No matter how good the previous films were, something was missing, songs, animation, escapism, a sense of perfectionism on the form and universal appeal on the content, something that only exotic fairy tales could provide, 'The Little Mermaid' awaited forty years in Disney's drawers, but it was worth it, the film was a tailor-made project to give animation its letters of nobility back. The film's success would multiply by 10 the working staff and would regularly bring home the two Oscars for Best Song and best Score.To think that the Studios were reluctant about including the 'boring' 'Part of your world' or thought about Sebastian as an English butler, see, the film also had that sparkle of luck, projects-that-must-succeed all have. But it's not just luck, animation, music or special effects, the film had to prove its value on the storytelling department and for that, Disney designed one of their most endearing heroines, Princess Ariel, King Triton's youngest daughter, a rebellious red-head without that bankable bad-assness. In Ariel, we have a teenager, to which any kid or adult can relate, with a thirst for discovery and adventures, a hobby (she collects human's items), a dream (to visit land) and a poignant mix of vulnerability and courage. She's not supposed to be a feminist model, but she's not submissive either so whoever finds her desire to change for a man, something insulting, doesn't know the effect love has on someone, regardless of any gender consideration.I had –by the way- a huge crush on Ariel, and on Alyssa Milano from 'Who's the Boss' so I was pleasantly surprised that she was modeled after her, she's simply sublime, and for a Disney heroine, the animators sure knew how to make her look subtly erotic, from my kid's perspective. And a figure like Ariel allows the film to explore so many cherished universal themes : coming-of-age, impossible love and the famous Faustian bargain. Ariel must trade her voice with the devilish Ursula, the octopus-like sea witch, to become a human and be in love with Eric. And what a Divine (from the original model) villain Ursula is. No other villain impacted viewers since 'Maleficent' and 'Cruella', with her body language, her voice and her smile, we wouldn't believe how evil she is, until the exciting and heart-pounding climax where she shows what a larger-than-life villain (literally) she is.'The Little Mermaid' is great on every single department, it's full of colorful and unforgettable creatures, there's also the late Kenneth Mars voicing King Triton, Ariel's patient father, there's the two villainous eels, a buffoonish French cook and there's Sebastian who sings the film's signature songs, 'Under the Sea' that would inspire one of 'The Simpsons' most hilarious musical numbers, and the atmospheric and subtly erotic 'Kiss the Girl', to which I would have given the Oscar. Never had a princess been so expressive with her facial expressions than Ariel in that short segment, more than a plot device, her muteness inspired some of the best drawing from any Disney movie.Thanks for Disney animators for giving another milestone in Disney movies and on its own, all trivia put apart, one of the greatest animated movies and musicals ever.
A good family film with a cute version the story. As it is written so it is said, Disney's movie is *loosely* based on Hans Christian Andersen's story - so you cannot compare Andersen's story with Disney's film. Disney's film is a colorful tale with quite a few comical characters.I enjoyed this film quite a bit but I would have liked to have seen this movie a bit 'darker' in tone (animation and story). Under ocean is a mysterious place - so I would have preferred this movie with more of a 'gloomy' atmosphere and story instead of being mainly a bright place to live. Of course it's just a matter of personal preference.Yes The Little Mermaid is a wonderful film. You could make this a double feature with movies like: 'Sleeping Beauty' or 'Beauty and the Beast'.8/10
Kids will love this movie. Animated, simple plot, clear good guys and bad guys, a romance involving a prince, catchy, easy-to-remember tunes and songs, happy ending. Pretty much follows the how-to-make- a-movie-for-kids formula to the letter.However, anyone else is likely to find this quite boring. I certainly did. (The score I have given tries to take the two sides into account. if it was just based on what I think of it, my score would be lower, probably a 3/10).The polarisation doesn't have to occur. It is possible to make movies both adults and kids can like. Movies like Up and Bambi and series like The Simpsons have shown us this.Anyway, a good movie to keep the children busy. Just don't waste your time trying to watch it yourself.
Y'know, Ursula is a complete evil (w)itch, but she does raise a good point. She says men don't care about what women say, and love a silent, submissive lover. You'd think that the words of our villianess are lies, a warped view of this reality...but then Prince Eric falls for the silent Ariel in less than a day.I mean, yeah, I shouldn't expect the finest writing in Disney films, but they barely tried here. While I do commend Prince Eric giving up his quest to find his mermaid in shining armor, its not like his 'other option' was any better. I can kind of forgive making them fall in love over a short time frame, but there's not a semblance of a conversation between the two. And the movie itself reminds you of this! Both parties are guilty of the 'love at first sight' myth.Alright, alright. The Little Mermaid didn't revolutionize the princess genre. Its meant for the family, especially young girls. By those standards? I did enjoy the movie! xD Its a landmark for Disney, and animation in general. It looks great for its time, has personality to its characters, and has a wonderful environment - the deep blue sea, and all the creatures that inhabit it. It also has some of the catchiest, most memorable tunes in Disney.If you're looking to catch up on some nostalgia, or want something for the whole family, it still holds up. If you want to rewatch Disney films with a more mature mind, you're not going to find much here though.
'The Little Mermaid' is said to have kicked off a period for Disney known as the Disney Renaissance period, starting with this movie and ending with 'Tarzan' a decade later. It is also said to be the first movie of the Disney Renaissance that started the incline of good movies before dropping with the release of 'Pocahontas'. I agree with the point that there was a decade long span of a Disney Renaissance period, but I have a little bit of a different view on this movie being one of the greats. While the last half of the movie is definitely deserving of that level of praise, the first half, while good, is not as well done, in my opinion.After missing her father's celebration because she was searching a sunken human ship looking for artifacts, Ariel (Jodi Benson) is warned by her father King Triton (Kenneth Mars) end her interest with the human world. Ariel does not listen and ends up saving a human, Prince Eric (Christopher Daniel Barnes) from drowning after his ship catches fire and sinks. Triton forbids Ariel from going to the surface again, resulting in her making a deal with the sea witch Ursula (Pat Carroll) to become human for three days and to have a kiss of true love in exchange for Ariel's voice. If Ariel fails, Ursula will claim her.While the first half of the film with Ariel's life underwater is good, it is not very original. Ariel wants to do something but everyone else tells her it's a bad idea. The only refreshing thing done with this is that Ariel comes off less as a cliché breaking traditions kind of character and instead like a teenage girl who just isn't listening to her father all the time. The part where Ariel and Eric first meet and fall in love is the most rushed romance of any Disney film. He just hears her voice and sees her and he's in love. She just sees him and she's in love. I know it's Disney, but even by their standards it is rushed and unbelievable. The second half of the film is handled much better. When Ariel is unable to speak, a lot has to be conveyed in her facial expression and actions, which is always nice to see. The fish-out-of-water element (no pun intended) also really works here because it is not just that she has come from a different world, but that she has been given the wrong information on certain things in the human world, like forks and pipes, which allows for some good comedy. The thing that really makes the movie shine, in my opinion, are the side characters, who are for the most part very memorable. King Triton comes off like a father who is worried about his daughter's well-being. Sebastian (Samuel E. Wright) is the first Disney character, I think, to actually have some sort of background with music that he uses at different points in the movie. Flounder (Jason Marin) serves as the timid, but still helpful friend to Ariel, and Scuttle (Buddy Hackett) works as the comic relief who thinks he understands things better than he really does. Ursula is a villain who, while what she's doing is evil, actually has some right to do certain things because of Ariel's contract, so she is not just evil. The same, however, can not be said about Prince Eric, who is pretty forgettable.The animation of the film is spectacular, though the animation sometimes does not meet up with the voice work. The musical numbers aren't very memorable, with the exception of Sebastian's 'Under the Sea' and 'Kiss the Girl'. While tiny, something that bothered me is that while all of the sea creatures talked, Eric's dog Max didn't.As I said, the first half of the film is good, but I don't view it as great, though the second half is. I can see why it is said that this film started the Disney Renaissance period, but I don't think that 'The Little Mermaid' is as good and deserves to be mentioned with the movies people label as the greats, namely 'Beauty and the Beast', 'Aladdin', and 'The Lion King'.
I think this film will be remembered as one of the great movies of all time. The animation may not be as lush as some, but it is structured perfectly, has wonderful settings, and great music. Ariel is an enduring character that draws you in every time. The filmmakers did an amazing job making you care about her and Eric and making them so likable. The scenes in the village classic fairy tale charm, and you also have one of the most entertaining villains every created. I used to read the Anderson fairy tale when I was young, and even as a kid, I could tell it was a special story. Disney changed it but still made something very special. I'm glad they put the work in to make this worth watching over and over.
It's summer time, which means MORE REVIEWS! I'm starting out the season by reviewing Disney animated films, beginning with the Renaissance from the late '80s/early '90s. With that, let's talk about 'The Little Mermaid!'ANIMATION: The animation is really spectacular! I can see why this film sparked the Disney Renaissance - it just looks amazing! I love the colors, the lighting, the fluent movement of the people - but you're always reminded that it's animated. It's a stylized art, and it's animation at its best.SONGS/MUSIC: Obviously, this movie has some really impressive and memorable songs. Everybody remembers 'Under the Sea,' and, I have to admit, I like the song as well. The song I enjoy more than that is 'Part of Your World.' I love the music, I love the way it sounds. Howard Ashman and Alan Menken definitely knew how to make these songs sound like they were taken straight from Broadway! I don't know if I like the lyrics though, but we'll get to that later. My favorite song from the movie, though, is 'POOR UNFORTUNATE SOUL!!!!' This song kicks butt! I don't want to talk too much about it now, but my goodness! The lyrics, the music, the singer - the song is just unbelievable! You can tell so much energy and passion was thrown into this!ROMANCE: I'll be honest, this movie has a nice romantic element. I don't think it's Disney's best, but you do believe these characters are in love. They're willing to risk anything to be together, they can't stop thinking about each other, and, unlike Disney's earlier romances, Eric and Ariel actually have to work to fall in love; it's not necessarily love at first sight...not necessarily. I'll give it a pass here.CHARACTERS: -URSULA - Good grief, I FRICKIN' LOVE URSULA!! One of the main reasons I love the 'Poor Unfortunate Soul' number is because of her! Yes she's diabolical, manipulative, and menacing - and she's crudded awesome at being all those things! - but the real reason I love her is her character! She has a great character in this movie! She's not bland and boring - she has attitude! She has sass! She's a hard cold, lay-the-truth-out-for-you-nice-and-easy, get-what-she-wants type of character! If she were real...and human...and Saved...and not evil...I would totally marry her!-SEBASTIAN/SCUTTLE - These guys are OK. There are a few times I find them a little annoying, but even then they're not THAT annoying. They have some nice moments, and overall they are some good guys.ERIC – Who the crud is this guy? Aside from his name and being nice, I don't remember too much from him. He's like the earlier Disney princes...but he talks.-FLOUNDER - I don't like Flounder! I know he's cute and all, but he's not that good of a character to me. He's Ariel's closest friend, right? Then why doesn't he ever tell her that maybe she shouldn't disobey her father? He's a supportive friend - no question about it. But he should have told her, 'Ariel...Stop it.'-KING TRITON - Before I saw this movie, I heard what a strong, powerful father he is. I was expecting him to be a sort of pre-Mufasa. What do we get instead? He's the stereotypical parent who doesn't understand and doesn't want to listen to his child. When he warned Ariel about going near humans, I was expecting there to be a reason for it. Was there a reason? Not at all! He just has a prejudice against land for some unknown reason, and we never figure out why. He's not that bad of a character; in fact, I really like him. He loves his daughter, he's a strong parent, and he has great power. But from a dramatic standpoint, his lack of reason for why Ariel can't go to land makes him look unfair and cruel. To be fair, that's fine. She's your daughter and should do what you say. But if you reward her for doing what she shouldn't despite the fact that you forbade her from doing it in the first place, you look kind of weird.FINALLY...-ARIEL - ...Where the crud do I begin? She's selfish! If she had an option to take anything back, I don't think she would! Why? Because not only did she know what she was doing (deliberately going behind her father's back and disobeying him), but she got everything she wanted! Yes, despite her rebellion and causing so much trouble for everyone around her, she still got her precious Happily Ever After! What the crud? Her song 'Part of Your World,' though it sounds nice, is basically her just whining about her not being content with anything she has; and she won't be satisfied until she has more! It wouldn't bother me as much if it weren't for the fact that Ariel is the main character - the character we're supposed to learn from and identify with? What does she teach us? 'Hey kids! If you do the opposite of what your parents say, you'll live happily ever after! They're just parents! Just because they're older than you doesn't mean they're smarter and wiser and more experienced than you!' I'm not asking for her to be perfect, but I don't think she learned a lesson in this film. When she apologizes to her father towards the end, I think she was saying that because Ursula caught her. If she didn't mean any of the trouble she caused, she wouldn't have caused it.CONCLUSION: There are things I'm passionately against in this movie, but I can't just up and say I hate it. I still think the things I mentioned earlier are great. If some of the characters and the moral wasn't so ethically flawed, I'd enjoy this movie a lot more. As is, it's OK. Take what I said and see if you agree or disagree. BOOYIKA!
the little mermaid it's a Disney classic, is a love plot where a little sixteen years old mermaid called, Ariel who was able to overcome her difficulties to get her prince and live happy forever, it's a movie that is impossible to say you aren't going to watch it again, for the catchy songs like 'under the sea' or 'part of him', about Ariel it's the typical teenager looking for her dreams but... what's the difference? she is a mermaid and she has to become human, subject that her father hates, for that I consider that she is very brave and turn the movie excited and the viewer can involved with it.But what is it behind this? the famous little Mermaid of Disney magic story of fantasy comes from an old book which them was extracted, but the plot was changed according to the child viewer because the plot of the book was dedicate to readers with a mature age, because:first the little mermaid has not a happy ending. It would be a Disneys without its 'happily for ever', second she made a deal or contract with the witch where she indicated that each time she walk. she'll feel a lethal pain and if the young man gets married with another woman she'll die becoming foam. then Disney modify the plot making it in the version we know today as a little mermaid, it is completely recommended as child as adults people because, whatever will be your age, you will get captivated by the magic of the sea.
The fairy-tale which began Disney's Renaissance Era must have been a classic flick of its time but looking back now, The Little Mermaid doesn't feel as impressive as it did years ago. The story is a typical fairy tale, this time set in the ocean & concerning a young mermaid who falls in love at first sight with a human prince on board a ship & aspires to become human so that she can spend her life with him. The sea witch offers to fulfill her wish but it's part of her big evil plan to become the new ruler.The 2D animation still looks fantastic & makes striking use of colours in portraying the underwater world of Atlantica. The now memorable characters of Ariel, Sebastian, Ursula & others are wonderfully drawn & rendered on the screen, the story is a let down to be honest & there is nothing special about it. Same goes for the music in my case & the only song I liked is the beautifully composed & magnificently executed 'Under the Sea' track.On an overall scale, The Little Mermaid will always be remembered for it marked the beginning of a new era that took Disney to new creative heights & commercial success and also resurrected some of the elements this studio had given up long ago. But as a standalone film, the plot & story is pretty weak and it no more looks like a film that viewers of all ages will be able to enjoy.
Well, as my parents tell me, 'The Little Mermaid' used to be my favorite childhood movie. For some moments I doubted it, since I couldn't remember anything from it. Watching it now, I ended up out of words to express how much I enjoyed it. The main idea of Ariel trying to discover the whole world that there would be outside the sea is really intelligent, and encouraging for the kids. Writers involved in such storyline are VERY talented and surely deserve my sincere congratulations. The villain is well characterized, and scary as any other Disney one. One interesting thing to have in mind is that parents usually tend to teach their children what they know and think about the world, but sometimes they don't allow the kid discovering himself how things work. 'The Little Mermaid' makes you wonder about the world you live in, revealing a philosophically smart plot that should be seen in much more animated films. The love at first sight thing surely feels over in nowadays society-- mainly when you have Disney animations admitting it, like 2013's 'Frozen'--, but it is completely understandable to be seen in such old picture as this one. Also, there are some funny scenes to entertain the spectator, such as Sebastian's panic when he saw the cook decapitating all the fishes in the kitchen. All in all, it is one of the BEST animated movies I've ever seen along with 'The Lion King', and I surely recommend it to everyone.
The Little Mermaid is the very beginning of the Disney Renaissance that began in the late 80's. This film is a heartfelt film that is pure magic and one for the entire family to enjoy. It has some beautiful, magical songs such as the much-heralded 'Under the Sea.' The animation is light and actually pretty clear for an 80's animation film. This film is going to be impossible to resist and is one of the better Disney animated films ever made.Based of the fairytale by Hans Christensen Anderson, Ron Clements film is about how a mermaid named Ariel makes a pact with the evil sea witch, Ursula to become human and she has three days to kiss her true love or else she will turn back into a mermaid and endure being her servant for eternity.This film really has no famous voice-cast but I truly must single out Jodi Benson for her exceptional voice work. This is her first big voice role and she hits it spot on. She truly has a voice and proves it singing all these magical songs.Overall, this is a classic Disney film that harks back to the olden days of Disney. This begins the classics that were spawned out in the 1990's. A film of pure magic and a family delight. It's funny, romantic, and more emotional than one would expect. A very good film indeed. I rate this film 9/10.
THE LITTLE MERMAIDThis is one of my favourite Disney films.The movie is about a mermaid princess who dreams of exploring outside of the ocean. One day she saves a human prince from drowning and she falls in love. The problem is, she is a mermaid... so she signs a deal with an evil witch to change her into a human for 3 days. She now has a race against timer and has 3 days to make the prince fall in love with her, otherwise she becomes one of the witches weeds.The story is great and there are so many great characters in this film. Ariel is the main mermaid that falls in love with Prince Eric. Her friends are there to help her through her adventure though. Flounder is her little fishy friend, Sebastian is her crab friend and Scuttle is her seagull friend. Sebastian is my favourite character in the whole film. He is so funny... but then so is Scuttle.This is pretty much what you would expect from a Disney cartoon. It is a complete classic and is up near the top of the list in my mind near Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast and The Lion King.What I liked about this too is they didn't use famous names to sell it. I have never heard of any of the people who did voices for this movie. Jodi Benson, Christopher Daniel Barnes, Jason Marin, Buddy Hackett, Samuel E. Wright and Pat Carroll do the voices of the main characters.This film is full of adventure, love and music. The songs are very catchy and you can't help but tap your feet along to the classic songs Under the Sea and Kiss the Girl.This really is one of the best, and it is made even better because it was drawn and not computer animated. I always did prefer the drawn cartoons.I will give this film 8 out of 10.'Somebody's got to nail that girl's fins to the floor.'For more reviews, please like my Facebook page:https://www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl
While this IS the movie that started the Disney Renaissance, I feel that it was more due to the animation than the riveting story or characters.First, the Good: the animation is spectacular. Why they switched from this to whatever was used in Pocahontas and Hunchback will always be a mystery to me because it is BEAUTIFUL. The songs are pretty good, though I've always found Part of Your World to be a bit, um, 'whiney'. Under the Sea is good, and Poor Unfortunate Souls is also good. Kiss the Girl WAS good until it was bastardized by female pop singers like Selena Gomez. Since then, it just hasn't been the same.Then the Bad: a lot of scenes in this movie are rather boring. Maybe it's because I have a Y-chromosome, but I never found Ariel fawning over Eric or King Triton blowing his top to be that enjoyable. Again, the musical numbers are fun, but the scenes between them aren't very memorable in terms of dialogue and events, excluding the climax and that one scene of Ariel combing her hair with a fork.Now, the Ugly: I never realized it before, but I can totally sympathize with people who hate Ariel. Why? Because she essentially sells her 'voice' to the underwater version of the Devil in exchange for a shot at a getting guy. She does nothing to really help anyone else throughout the movie and doesn't spend much time thinking about things other than herself, boys, and human trinkets. At the end she gets her father turned into a... plant-fish-thing? And, despite all the trouble her raging teenage hormones have caused, she still gets what she wants.THAT'S not a harmful message at all! If you enjoy the movie, fine, I can easily see why: it's a very colorful, very beautiful film. But in my opinion, it doesn't hold up against other Disney films like Aladdin, The Hunchback of Notre Dame, or The Great Mouse Detective, who may lack stunning visuals but more than make up for it in story and characters, especially the latter.
Greetings again from the darkness. The first of three true classics from the 'middle era' of Disney animation ... along with Beauty and the Beast (1991) and The Lion King (1994) ... this 1989 version of Hans Christian Anderson's 1837 story brought musical theatre to an animated children's fairy tale. It was also the 28th Disney film, and the final to utilize hand-painted cel animation.The Blu-Ray release to celebrate the film's 25th anniversary is truly stunning in color, brightness, clarity and sound. An explosion of sight and sound occurs during the incredible cacophony of joy and cheer better known as the Best Song Oscar winner 'Under the Sea'. The calypso style was a very creative choice by musical directors Alan Menken and Howard Ashman.Of course, the star of the show is Ariel, the rebellious 16 year old mermaid who dreams of walking on the beach and dancing with the Prince. Ariel's remarkable vocals ('Part of Your World') are provided by Jodi Benson, who beautifully captures the innocence and longing necessary for the character. Samuel E Wright is the smooth voiced Jamaican crab Sebastian, who not only takes lead on 'Under the Sea', but also on 'Kiss the Girl'. The other standout is Pat Carroll as Ursula the Sea Witch. She is the perfect villain vs Ariel, and is quite a commentary on the actions of those who are power hungry.Written and directed by John Clements and Ron Musker, the film was a bit different for its time because of the depth of Ariel's character. This was a typical teenager going against her strict parent and dreaming of a better life. Ariel has a mind of her own and is willing to chase her dreams ... even if it's a boy from the proverbial 'other side of the tracks' and with a Faustian negotiation. From a technical perspective, the artwork is spectacular and movements are full and fluid (sorry for the pun). This came 5 years after Ron Howard's live action Splash with Tom Hanks and Darryl Hannah. If you ever doubt the power that expert animation can possess, just compare the emotion and charm in those two.This latest Blu-Ray release has some very interesting special features. We are treated to interviews with the film's animators as well as a peek inside the Disney Animation studios, now on its third generation of animators. Much reverence is provided to The Nine Old Men ... the original group of animators hand picked by Walt Disney. The last of the nine men died in 2008, and their trainees are now mentoring the most excited new group that is kicking out some new classics like Frozen and Wreck-it Ralph. What's that word ... circle of life.
The Little Mermaid is a great family movie that the younger children will get a kick out of -- even mom and dad might enjoy it too. The musical numbers in this movie are very good, including my favorite song 'Under the Sea.' Even the villainess has a good number to sing and perform. Romantics will get a kick out of the movie as well. The colorful underwater scenes are fabulous to watch, a real treat for the eye. The little mermaid herself has a stunning voice. The underwater creatures are adorable to watch and each presents unique personalities. My son had me read him the story several times until he was about 6 years old. So go ahead and pop some popcorn and get everyone a soda or a glass of milk for some good old fashioned musical and family entertainment.
'The Little Mermaid' takes us on an animated journey into the life of ginger mermaid Ariel and her dream of becoming human. It's sensory overload for Ariel and for the viewer from start to finish, but in the most positive way. It's a bit sad that some of the voice actors here (Flotsam & Jetsam, Triton, Scuttle) are dead now, but as it's almost 25 years since this film was made just shows what a timeless classic it has become. My favorite moment was Ariel singing in the film early 'Part of Your World' and swimming up to the moonlight. Such a beautifully mesmerizing song and scene. While it was IMHO the best song of the movie and I'm pretty surprised it did not get the Oscar nomination, all the other songs are really good as well. 'Under the Sea', maybe my least favorite, won the Oscar. I see it more as a 'Hakuna Matata', a great fun song with little depth, so it's a bit surprising it was chosen as the best song at the Golden Globes and Academy Awards. 'Kiss the Girl' is an amazing love song about taking the initiative and is very much worth listening to, just like 'Poor Unfortunate Souls', one of Disney's best villain songs ever. The latter is sung by Ursula, the main antagonist here and, long before she becomes a giant monster, already an epic villain here that may have changed the way we perceive octopuses forever to the negative.Ariel's best friend is a yellow-blue fish with the voice of a child, who rarely speaks, but is always loyal to her, even if he's scared quickly and it certainly doesn't help that there's always sharks around under the sea. Another friend is a bird who teaches Ariel about the human world and always knows what it is used for when Ariel shows him another item from the human world. Sadly, these descriptions are never accurate, which Ariel doesn't know of course, so she uses a fork for combing her hair at some point for example. Story-wise Ariel happens to rescue a Prince from drowning. Her father, however, doesn't want her to have any contact with humans, so he destroys her cavern which includes a giant collection of human things. Desperate and disappointed Ariel goes to see the sea witch Ursula and makes a deal with her. When she seems to be winning the deal, Ursula appears and tricks the prince into thinking she's the real Ariel. But of course, there's a happy ending as in pretty much every Disney film.One character I haven't mentioned so far, is Sebastian, who in my opinion is a definite contender for best supporting character in a Disney movie. He really leaves nothing to be desired. Initially loyal to Triton and instructed to look after Ariel, he's quickly captivated by her charm more and more as the film progresses and the very moment he realizes how Ariel will be unhappy for the rest of her life if she stays under the sea is just so much filled with excellence. Oh did I mention, he's also the royal court composer and a crab? Besides that, he's probably also the character who will provide the most comic relief and be the children's favorite. His chase scenes with the cook are simply hilarious. And when he assembles the orchestra, it's a win-win for everybody as we see ducks playing drums on turtle's bellies and the wildest ways music and performances can take by all the sea creatures involved.This animated version of Hans Christian Andersen's tale is simply a thing of beauty. It certainly is my new favorite film from 1989. The underwater world they created is pure movie magic, a feast for eyes and ears. Watch it with the one you love and you'll have a great time. It's also a great watch for fathers with their daughters thanks to the Triton-Ariel storyline. Most animated films these days are funny and stunning to look at, but hardly any reach the level of 'The Little Mermaid' especially in terms of emotional impact: the longing for love, the longing for freedom, even if you have to make sacrifices for it, or just the way all kinds of human relationships are displayed metaphorically with the help of mermaids, fish and all kinds of other sea animals. Very much recommended.
I loved it it's much better than sleeping beauty and ALaddin. this cartoon is awarding cartoon long before lion King and Hercules. man, i wish I could see this movie. it's more thrill ride than Jurassic park. but this catoon is the hottest cartoon than any Disney cartoon. it's the most impressive cartoon like a beauty and the beast and lion king. for me this movie is hotter than hot cheetos. it's more real than Sleeping beauty. jam packed fun and joy. what more do you want from little mermaid? if you see the atlantis it is the story that is very similar than little mermaid.I would give this movie A+. but I feel comfortable with this movie and I feel love from her heart. I like ariel more than Aladdin just as i like simba and Hercules. so what do you want more from this hottest classic cartoon? what cartoon can be match to little mermaid. I say No Aladdin and sleeping beauty can be match to little mermaid. which cartoon movie do you want more Aladdin or little mermaid. make your choice!
This is one of the greater full length animated feature films that was made after Walt Disney. A story about Ariel the Little Mermaid, who yearns to be part of the human world and who fell in love with human Prince Eric in the process. She makes a deal with Ursula the Sea Witch and traded her voice for legs so she could rise to the surface of the waters. What follows is a romantic story in how Ariel tries to win Eric's heart without her voice and an exciting race against time to ensure Ariel remains human, otherwise, returning back to the ocean and into the evil Ursula's custody.Ron Clements and John Musker did an outstanding job in directing this movie, grasping the audience's attention at the start of the film with a musical sequence on the Prince's ship, and then a spectacular entry under the sea when we are introduced to the mermaids, helped by a powerful music score. The solid plot quickly identifies the story's main issue, Ariel, who is tired of being treated like a child by her father King Triton. The issue is then expanded as Ariel struggles to win Eric's heart when she goes to the human world while, at the same time, not knowing that Ursula has devious plans of her own to control the sea. All these plot elements and twists make this a very exciting Disney movie from start to finish.The characters are very lovable and memorable, especially Flounder, Sebastian (my favorite) and Scuttles. They added humor and spirit in the movie as they help Ariel with her issues. The music score and songs are some of cinema's best work - Alan Menken and Howard Ashman did a marvelous job. 'Under the Sea' is a very lively and dynamic Calyso-type song and 'Part of your World' is a moving and commanding song; Jodi Benson had the perfect voice for Ariel - very soothing and serene. And, the artwork and graphics are some of the best I have seen in an animated film.Overall, one of the best movies from Disney and remains a timeless fairytale for all ages.Grade A
This is movie that I'm a little 'hmm' with. It's a famous fairytale that's been 'Disney-fied' as I call it. One of the reasons is that the mermaid lives in the end (this is why I put the spoiler thing on). If you leave it where the wedding boat goes off and leave Ariel to cry, then that would be closer to the book. But no, we need a third act! Speaking of Ariel, *sigh*, I HATE her. She's all like 'I've sold my soul for legs. LEGS!!!' Gosh, she's selfish! Even though she did wrong (even apologized, but for only 10 seconds), she still GETS WHAT SHE WANTS! Typical though, she is a Disney Princess.So, you're probably wondering, if I hate the changes to the plot and the main character, why did I give it a 6? Because of 3 things; the music, the villain and the animation. This was made after Oliver & Co. so comparing the two is like comparing cheese and a marble statue. Second, the music is amazing. I even like 'Part of Your World', even though it's just a wine, but a pretty wine. I definitely LOVE 'Poor Unfortunate Souls'! That songs just rocks! And speaking of villains, Ursula is one of the best villains EVER! Being cunning and clever, but also manipulative and snarky! Definitely not someone I want to meet on a cold dark night when I'm swimming.On the whole, it's an enjoyable movie. Sure the plot is a bit whimsical, but it makes up for it with the musical accompaniment. The main character has as much of a character as a wasp, but the villain is developed so well. So I would say go see it, but mostly just to say you've seen it. Another treasure trove to add to Disney's collection of thingamabobs.
How can we not love Ariel?It's my favorite animated movie. I don't know what it has, but every year I have to see it. After watching it I feel so good and happy.The story is of an immense beauty, art and the soundtrack is outstanding.We see the growth of Ariel and her love for a human, we see a frill father that does everything for his daughters and see a sea witch who uses all possible means to achieve the triton. To these ingredients we add Max, Sebastian and Flounder and we have the Little Mermaid story!A movie with maximum score!
Mermaid Princess Ariel wants to live up above the ocean floor in the world of humans. She makes a deal with an evil sea witch named Ursula and leaves the ocean for life on dry land. When things go array in both her beloved worlds, Ariel must enlist the help of her fish friend Flounder and crab Sebastian to set things right.It's become almost a monthly ritual to pull this out and watch it ever since my kids starred in a local stage play based on the movie.What can be said about 'The Little Mermaid' that already hasn't been? I think its award nominations and wins speak for themselves. Boys and girls of all ages adore this treasure. As stated above, it's even found life as a stage play performed around the world by children's and adult theaters.
I fondly remember watching this film as a child alongside other Disney Classics such as 'Peter Pan' and 'Cinderella' and it is still one of my favourites to this day. I will also give it some credit for the first Disney film I remember seeing. I have recently purchased the Diamond Edition of this film on DVD in a triple pack with its sequel and prequel.The animation is not quite as flat or sketchy as it was in earlier Disney Classics such as 'The Jungle Book,' 'The Aristocats,' and 'The Rescuers' since there must have been a slight improvement to it since 'Oliver and Company' (another favourite of mine) and I generally like animated films and TV shows set underwater (this one, the spin-off TV series, 'SpongeBob SquarePants' and 'Finding Nemo' especially) because I find them rather therapeutic. While some of its elements may differ from those in the original Hans Christian Andersen story (for example Ursula's rules regarding Ariel's transformation as a human differing from those in the original story), it has a happy ending that isn't rushed like the one in 'Cinderella.' Other parts of the film that hold up well are the majority of songs, especially 'Part of Your World,' 'Under the Sea,' 'Poor Unfortunate Souls' and 'Kiss the Girl' but the other songs are not quite as memorable. Nevertheless I liked the use of the Can-Can music while Chef Louis chases Sebastian through the kitchen. Despite the song 'Daughters of Triton' being brief and rather forgettable, I can still remember the shock of Ariel's six older sisters discovering that she is not in her giant clam shell as part of the concert and instead collecting human odds and ends. One iconic scene in this film is the one where Ariel leans on a rock with the waves splashing behind her while she sings another portion of 'POYW' after having rescued Eric from the shipwreck. It reminds me very much of the Little Mermaid statue in Denmark.Ursula is one of the most menacing villains I've ever come across while her eel assistants Flotsam and Jetsam are creepy.One slight difference I noticed between the Diamond Edition and the version I remember as a child is that during the first wedding between Eric and 'Vanessa,' the vicar's knobbly knees were removed because they were mistaken for something else that I'd rather not mention...Overall this Disney Classic holds up today as well as 'Peter Pan' did. 9/10.
When I first saw this film as a little kid, I wasn't really all that interested. I just thought that it was another stupid princess love story, which I hated. Because of that I never really gave this movie a chance. Watching this movie as an adult, I realize that I could not have been more wrong. This film is a must see for all children, not only for the beautiful story of true love, but for the catchy songs, fun humor, and tear jerking moments. As an adult watching this film, I realize that this movie is not just a love story. In fact, the film isn't really about that. This film is about the father-daughter relationship between Ariel and King Triton. When Ariel falls in love with a human, Triton becomes angry and destroys her things because he is afraid of her being hurt. Ariel does not realize this, so she goes to the sea witch Ursula and exchanges her voice to be able to walk on land and be with her prince. The love story in this film, sweet as it may be, is only a bonus to this film. The story is really about Ariel and Triton, and Triton's love for his daughter, so proved when he sacrifices himself and control over the ocean to protect her. This film is for all of the daughters who have had trouble with their fathers,and all of the fathers who love their daughters more than anything.
A tough claim to make, but there are just so many reasons why I believe this to be true. I loved it as a four year old in the theater when it first came out and I still love it. I just re-watched with my niece and can't believe anyone would rate this film poorly. I find it to be unique compared to the other 'princess' Disney films - something about it is a little edgier, a little funnier. The music is fantastic (Under the Sea and Kiss the Girl have to be my favorite Disney songs of all time - love that little Calypso singing crab). It lacks potentially offensive cultural stereotypes and traumatic moments that might scar a child for life (thanks a lot, Bambi and Lion King). Even the antagonists are fun (just look at Ursula's LBD) There's just nothing not to like. LOVE.
A mermaid princess named Ariel makes a Faustian bargain with an unscrupulous seahag named Ursula in order to meet a human prince named Eric on land.This is the film that really launched Disney's golden age (or what some people call the Renaissance era). Memorable songs, a fun story and characters... the last good Disney animated feature was 'Robin Hood' in 1973, and even that is a stretch.For those of us who grew up in the 1980s, we were rather blessed -- for the next few years the Disney films were amazing, starting with this gem. Ignore the sequel and you will appreciate this one incredibly.
Rewatching this as a 26 year old, some of the classic Disney wonders can be lost on you. As much as you've mentally prepared yourself to take things at face value, you still can't help to wonder the more realistic aspect of things. Forget the improbability of mermaids turning into people. Forget even the mere existence of mermaids and mermen for the sake of beliefs being suspended. We can still draw some of the plots unto our own stories. The biggest one personally for me is Ariel's eagerness as a teen (was it common for 16 year olds to get married back in '89?) and interests in a world different from her own, then having not so much as qualms to leave the only world she has known behind for her one true love.This may seem a bit crass but I found it quite amusing that Disney proposed a mute heroine for the first time (I'm a female in case that's a merit for such finding). Maybe some men would find a very attractive red head who can't speak as the perfect package but Eric prefer his princess to be the singing kind. This point was totally lost on me as a 10 year old but one thing I vividly remember from the film was the heroine as 'she is big eyes, she is nice hair, I sure like that and wouldn't mind to look like her when I grow up'.Putting all that aside, the film proved to be just as enjoyable as the last time I saw it (at least 16 years ago). A little backstory with Ariel and her sisters seem to have some potentials but I guess Disney has already explored that with Cinderella. Ursula still came across as intimidating especially after she did her voodoo and took over the crown and the All Power Holding Spear.I've always thought the biggest part of Disney's charm is its unique ability to turn saccharine lyrics and arrangements into something magical and this is no exception to the general rule. Part Of Your World manage to sound appealing despite it being suited to a younger audience. As far as the voice talents are concerned, Disney has the trick down to a knack. This is what The Little Mermaid is all about - a Disney classy classic class.
I love The Little Mermaid! I used to watch this movie on VCR everyday when I was a child, sometimes I even rewind it and watched it again on the same day; we had to re-buy it a couple of times since it was watched so many times it broke! I always dreamed to become a mermaid when I grew up. The songs are fun and will be stuck in your head forever, the characters are funny and Ariel is someone to really relate to. Wanting more out of life than what is handed to you and that your parents won't always support you in what you do but will love you anyway is a really beautiful thing to grow up with. Some jokes are even funnier when you grow up. I am now 20 years old and I still watch it very often and I know all the words and can sing along with all the songs.
Title The Little Mermaid Setting Under the ocean where mermaids and mermen live. But at the depths in the ocean there's the evil sea witch, Ursula. Plot Ariel,king Triton's youngest daughter,is fascinated by humans so she goes to the sea witch and asks to grant her wish of being human. So the sea witch makes her human for 3 days and in those 3 days she must get the prince to kiss her but sea witch asked for Ariel's voice,so she had to get the prince to kiss her without even talking to him! Favourite part My favourite part was when the sea witch dies. The cook was really funny when he tried to chop Sebastian(a crab)and ended up making a huge mess and he got scolded by the servant mistress! Ariel combed her hair with a fork in the dining room in front of the prince and sir Grimsby (the prince's royal servant)and the prince! Ariel pulls a puppet out of the wheel cart and a grumpy man pokes his head out and looks at her! Recommendation I think someone else will like this movie because it has a lot of songs,funny bits and all sorts of stuff. It is really active and fun. There's a really big storm. Everything is so new for Ariel! S. Age 7 This movie review was submitted as part of a class project where we learnt about writing book reviews and movie reviews. We hope it is useful for you.
The Disney blockbuster that started a remarkable winning streak, which would stretch through an entire decade. The Little Mermaid has all the familiar ingredients you've come to expect from Disney. But keep in mind, this is the one that established that formula: a spunky heroine (she's by no means the first Disney heroine but she's the first to take action), a Broadway-style musical with showstopping numbers (this time it's 'Under the Sea') and state-of-the-art animation. The film is well known for its musical score and songs, and rightly so. The theme music in the main titles still sends shivers down my spine. And so is the rest of the score. Clearly, the Disney artists went to great lengths to create a believable underwater environment. Notice the bubbles, light reflection, light and shadow effects, etc. I know some people criticize the character of Ariel and that she didn't learn her lesson in the end. Or maybe she did? I always though (and still do) that she realized what she had done when she saw what happened to her father and Ursula taking over the ocean. The scene where she's sitting on a rock watching Eric is one of the best moments in the film. I can't wait to watch it in 3D in September and get the Blu-ray.
People say that The Little Mermaid was a classic, and a great way to start off the Disney Renaissance. While I think that it had a good setup, has many good things in it, and it could've ended up as one of my favorites, I say that this film has 2 flaws, and they're huge ones.First problem is our main character, Ariel. She's just a bratty teenage girl who does the teenage clichés. She has a big motive, but disobeys her father and makes a deal with the sea witch, Ursula, to get what she wants. And in the end, she doesn't learn anything and still gets what she wants. If your main character is not likable, that's not a good sign.My second problem is the morals. Like I said before, Ariel doesn't learn anything, but her father does. King Triton, at first, is an overprotective father who has the 'My way or the highway' type of personality, but changes as the film goes along. At the end of the movie, he gives Ariel exactly what she wants. He learns to let his daughter go and not be so overprotective. Kind of a botched message, but I'm over analyzing here. I think this would work great if Triton was the main character, not Ariel. It's the main character that's supposed to learn in a movie, not someone else.These are huge flaws indeed, but it doesn't make The Little Mermaid a bad film. There's tons of things to like, such as the songs, the animation, Ursula, some of the comedy, etc. Those flaws, for me, stop the film from being good. But the things to like in this movie stops it from being bad, in my opinion. 6/10.
I love 'The Little Mermaid' and it's a brilliantly made film. It also represents the rebirth of Disney Studio--a film that firmly announced that they were once again a great producer of family full-length cartoons. This being said, I have one very minor quibble about the movie--very minor. The meta-message seems to be that parents are a bit stupid and kids should be encouraged to make their own choices. While this is sometimes true, it's a message too often found in films of the 1980s. Now I am NOT attacking Disney for this--too often Steven Spielberg and others promoted this message during this time, so why shouldn't the studio hop on the bandwagon? This is the sole reason the film only gets a 9 from me, not a 10. And, this is why I adored their followup film, 'Beauty and the Beast', as it had a marvelous message from start to finish. Still, 'Little Mermaid' has GREAT music, a fun story and some wonderful animation--and only a real curmudgeon could hate it.
Singing sea animals+mermaids+humans=The Little Mermaid!I enjoyed The Little Mermaid, like a lot when I was a young girl. When I went swimming, I pretend to be Ariel and sing 'Part of Your World' with my horrendous singing voice (yes, my singing voice is very off key, monotone, or too pitchy). But I did it so YOSO (you only swim once). Ariel (Jodi Benson) has a voice like an angel and Ariel is my favorite princess EVER- she may be stubborn and spoiled, but she's determined, curious, and adventurous! I Love Ariel; she's just like me in some ways (I wanted to be a mermaid when I was younger!) So let's get back to the movieThe songs are freakin' awesome! When Sebastian and his animal friends sing 'Under the Sea,' I want to be in the sea singing along and be with my sisters down there. That would be awesome! 'Poor Unfortunate Souls' sung by the fantastic villainess Ursula blew me away! It's just how she presented the song is so memorizing and freaky especially if you are part of that situation. 'Part of Your World' is a showstopper, it's brilliant! All hail Jodi! She should be my singing coach if I had all of the money in the world. 'Kiss the Girl' is cute, not as strong as the other 3, but I'll take it. The songs are some of the best that Disney has ever done, nuff said.The Little Mermaid has great and lively animation, Ursula is one of Disney's best villains (she and Scar from TLK are my favorite Disney villains of all time!!!!), Flounder is the cutest fish ever, it has a great plot, plus Jodi Benson as Ariel! How awesome is that?I wish I could give this an 11/10 because this movie deserves that 11/10! Watch The Little Mermaid, it won't disappoint! So grab your ancient VHS player and watch the damn movie!
I used to watch this movie all the time as a girl, in Sweden we also got treated to the magical singing voice of Sissel for Ariel. A lot of great voices for the Swedish dub made this very enjoyable, most of the lyrics I remember even today.I won't give it a full ten stars, because I wish there had been more development between Ariel and Eric. He is heroic, kind and considerate, but much more than that isn't known about him. He remains pretty much out of the spotlight to make more room for Ariel. At least the movie did good by making him so caring about the dog Max, and that the dog isn't just there for a comedic value.The movie is fun, magical, frightening at times and the songs really lift up the movie. Even the instrumental music in the background are gorgeous to listen to.
Most of the Disney classics seemed to sort of follow the same story. Good person, good intentions, gets intro trouble. Bad guy, is envious, good person somehow gets involved with the bad guy, things happen and in the end the bad guy is stopped and the good person lives.This happened in this movie as well, however the plot was very unique for me. I just saw it for the first time and I was amazed by midway through. Sure the first true love kiss and all that is cheesy to some. Sure the mermaid falling in love with a prince (non-coincidentally hmmm?) seems cheesy as well. But the way the story went was very interesting.Plus the songs. Got. to. love. them. AMAZING like Under the Sea and the others as well. Loved them!The ending seemed to almost reach the same level as the rest of the movie, which is why it loses a point, unfortunately. From what I saw, a simple poke from a boat is what got rid of the giant evil witch. But whatever, the movie was great anyway!Rated 8/10.
One of my favorite Disney classics of all time, I must have seen it about 100 times or more. This movie is about the sweet little mermaid Ariel who is dreaming about becoming a human so that she can be with her dream prince.This has got to be one of the best animated movies ever made by Walt Disney Studios. I know the original novel of Hans Christian Andersen and the movie does not follow the novel completely. This doesn't affect the movie and the magic in a bad way, it just makes the story more dreaming and sweet.Jodi Benson is the voice talent behind Ariel and she really does bring adventure and charm into the character. She has a very characteristic voice and sings beautifully, no doubt about that.This movie is probably cherished and loved by all the little girls around the world. It has great music, sweet characters and a fabulous storyline. Simply fantastic.
22 years have passed since this classic revitalized the Disney company and an entire film genre. I remember 'The Little Mermaid' came out of nowhere. The only Disney movies you would bother going to see were the reissued classics from the 40's/50's/60's.The Little Mermaid is as imaginative as 'Sleeping Beauty', as touching as 'Cinderella' and as groundbreaking as 'Snow White'. The underwater world is well realized and you can see a lot of effort was put into the drawings. There's some brilliant character animation like Ursula['s tentacles] and Ariel['s hair]. In terms of animation, the final battle truly stands out with all the special effects. Many agree that this movie has the best musical score of all the classics and indeed, The Little Mermaid is enormously popular largely due to its music. The Little Mermaid is Disney at its absolute best.
The Little Mermaid is one of those films I grew up with when I was a kid - something that the whole family can watch and never really get sick of. The imagination brought into this fairy tale (despite the fact that the ending is vastly changed from the original to please the kids) is simply superb. Songs, music, characters are all terrific.While I think Beauty and the Beast stands as Disney's best animated film, The Little Mermaid is still one of the top ones to check out. A story about Aeriel - the young mermaid curious about the human world who ends up falling for Prince Eric of the human race.And all the other cute characters such as Sebastian, Flounder, not to mention a very sinister villain with the Sea Witch. It all makes for a great time and has a good deal of emotion in it too.I really miss Disney films made in this era - they were done so well and I will always be a huge fan of them. The ones nowadays - while they aren't horrible, just seem to be a bit too modern and hence don't have that magic as the old ones - probably because they focus more on doing references to other things rather than coming up with original ideas that felt fresh.
I know I'm going to get death threats for this review from die hard Disney fans, but I don't care. The Little Mermaid is not my favorite Disney film. Sure, the animation is great and there are a few good songs in there, but that's all I have to say that is good about this film. Before you harp on me saying 'But Disney sells smiles and had to give this story a happy ending compared to the original tragic story', that is not the reason why I don't like this film. I think giving stories like The Little Mermaid a happy ending is hard to pull off, but it can be done. Just too bad the execution and lack of morals made this film hard to swallow.The big beef I have with this film is the protagonist. Seriously, I really cannot stand Ariel. She's so much like Bella Swan from Twilight, that it's sickening. Ariel is superficial, spoiled, self centered, whiny, ungrateful and well, she's just about as smart as a door knob. Her dream is to have legs, but why? Because, having legs is cool and awesome and the new trend among mermaids. I know this is a family film, but that is not an excuse for cop out writing. If Disney gave her a more heartfelt reason why she wanted to be human, I would have liked this film some more. As for Ariel being superficial, the only reason why she loves Eric is because he's handsome and a prince. Never mind that he's lazy, self-centered, vain, cocky, egotistical and downright idiotic, he's handsome, rich and famous, and that's all that matters. She even goes as far as giving everything up in life, so she can stalk him and be possessive of him, to the point where she throws a tizzy when he looks at people other than her. You know, if I were Eric, I wouldn't care if she lost her voice. I would ditch her if I were him. Partners who force themselves on you and get possessive of you aren't the good type of lovers. I don't care what Disney has to say about that.As for Ariel being spoiled and ungrateful, she's rude to her family and friends, and treats her own family like a pile of garbage, yet her family and friends love her back. 'But she's a teenager' isn't a valid excuse. Even teenagers who treat their family and friends like trash end up facing some punishment for their actions and mistakes. Hell, if I acted anything like Ariel to my family, they would have disowned me and send me to live on the streets. Well, Triton does try to punish her, but he regrets it later and lets her live out her wet fantasy of having a lazy and useless trophy husband.Ariel's not being smart for selling her soul...I mean voice to the so-called 'evil' sea witch Ursula. And why does she want this? Because her 'cruel family' won't let her have a trophy husband from another world. Give me a break... So to make the long story short, Ariel gets her wish, but then, Ursula makes herself pretty and seduces Eric. Instead of getting over it, Ariel gets possessive of Eric and stalls the wedding. But as she gains her voice, she becomes a mermaid and Ursula tries to turn her into a barnacle. But instead, Triton takes her place and a big battle ensures. Eric gets to do all the work while Ariel just cowers in a corner whimpering and crying. How sexist is that? I can see if this movie was made back in the 1940's, I'd be more understanding, but it was made in 1989. The same era She-Ra, Jem and other girl heroes came out. There's no excuse for Ariel to be a doormat. So in the end, Ariel doesn't apologize to her family and friends, but they still give into her dream and she gets married right off the bat. They don't talk to her saying that she needs to know him better, because that would make sense. So Ariel gets married to Eric and has a child with him, at the age of 16! And he's an adult! No, that's not pedophilia at all. In a nutshell, I can't believe this movie beat All Dogs go to Heaven and Little Nemo in the animation war of the 1980's. A film about a creepy, unhealthy and borderline dysfunctional relationship beating a couple cute, yet dark films about redeeming yourself (All Dogs go to Heaven) and conquering your fears (Little Nemo). The parental watchdog groups boycotted all Dogs and Little Nemo for being too dark and creepy, yet don't bat an eyelash to the diseased values in TLM?Watch Little Nemo, All Dogs go to Heaven and The Dark Crystal to see what real family films are about. Sure, they have their dark and creepy moments, but they have likable characters and don't promote dysfunctional relationships.Rating: ** out of *****
Despite being already a teenager I decided to watch The Little Mermaid and was pleasantly surprised how much I loved it. Not only does it have a compelling story, it contains tension, drama, action and of course lots of humor and catchy songs. It's hard to stand still whenever crab Sebastian makes all the sea animals sing 'Under the sea'. Sebastian was for me the real star of the movie and made me want to see the movie over and over again. It's not only what he does but also his expressions and the way he talks making him my favorite all time Disney character. Especially his scene with chef Louis is hilarious. That Disney actually produced a very different and more happy ending than the original fairy tale didn't bother me one bit. I love happy endings. I could find no errors in this animation and have to rate it maximum.
The iconic scene of Ariel sitting on a rock, looking out at Eric and singing 'Part of Your World', obviously sums up what the film is all about- reaching your goals and never giving up, whatever the circumstances. A modernised adaptation of Hans Christian Anderson's classic, truly speaks for itself. With the production stylings of Howard Ashman and John Musker, they have truly achieved this beautifully and really makes anyone emotional, every time they see it.A story of a daring, sixteen year old mermaid, Ariel, who is fascinated by humans and what is beyond the water. When going against her father's rule that no-one was supposed to go above the surface, she sees the most beautiful thing ever- Prince Eric. With her side-kick, Flounder and the 'party pooper' Sebastian she goes to the sea witch, Ursula to get Prince Eric. However Ursula has other plans, that may ruin Ariel's chance with the Prince.With the vision of producers, Howard Ashman and John Muskar and the crew behind them, they have captured this epic tale in such a way, that is true poetry- no lie. True, they have changed the ending from the original, all they want is that everyone goes home relieved that Ariel gets her happy ending, as opposed to the Hans Christian Anderson version, in which the feisty mermaid doesn't get her happy ending.With a all-star cast, consisting of voices from: Jodi Benson (Ariel/Vanessa), Christopher Daniel Barnes (Eric), Pat Carroll (Ursula), Kenneth Mars (Triton), Jason Marin (Flounder), Samuel. E. Wright (Sebastian), Ben Wright (Grimsby), Buddy Hackett (Scuttle), Edie McClurd (Carlotta), Paddi Edwards (Flotsem and Jetsem) and Will Ryan (The Sea-horse), they have come together to make this creation come alive.Overall, I do not think there is any fault with this film, as with the other films Disney has made. Just one word- AMAZING!!!!!!!!
Often considered the birth of the animation 'renaissance,' The Little Mermaid is less the initiator than the point at which the renaissance model was perfected (seeing as films like An American Tale and Who Framed Roger Rabbit already showed the public was hungry for classical animation). Seeing as this was the first commercial and aesthetic success for Disney in years, it makes sense that Disney would take this movie's tropes and recycle them (for reasons other than the themes they explored). With its logically arranged songs and archetypes, it became something like the purest example of Disney's approach.Beyond this, though, it's quite a solid and entertaining piece of animation. By keeping the narrative simple and digestible, and letting the animators finally have some leeway where the characters were concerned, the studio took a huge risk that paid off. It's the most lavishly and cleanly animated Disney picture since the sixties, and finally marked a return to the animator driven environment of the golden age of Disney. That period's experimentation was dead and buried, unfortunately, and The Little Mermaid is too safe and inoffensive to be another Pinocchio, but by the standards of American studio animation it remains quite satisfying.As a Hans Christian Anderson adaptation, it's been well documented that this adaptation screws with the source material, but for all the sunshiny Barbie Doll-ness of Ariel and the dancing sea creatures there is an appealing naive sense of yearning to her character. She sees something she wants that reminds her of the world she ultimately yearns for, and she does anything to attain it. Hungry sharks or her very identity be damned. As cliché as the 'I want' song has become, this particular rendition has a surprisingly haunting quality to it that's more melancholy than cheerful. It's easy to be a snark and point at the stupid things she does for a guy she doesn't know, but considering he simply exemplifies her desires it makes perfect sense that she would take such a route as to give up her voice and identity.This is why I hate the ending. I don't demand that Disney use the same ending as the source material, but I would expect some sort of sacrifice to be made to at least preserve some literary integrity. By giving Ariel back everything she desired, it seems to deny that there are any consequences to her behavior.Snobby nitpicking over a damn children's movie aside, The Little Mermaid is mostly very charming and fun to watch. Alan Menken's score and songs are iconic, catchy, and always have a character point to them (most of Menken's imitators seem to leave out the fact that songs have to actually communicate things relevant to the story). Not all of the side characters endear (I struggle to remember all of them) but a few are good fun, if recycled to the point of nausea since then.It's clear that the animation here is a huge step up from the Saturday Morning quality of their last few films (perhaps owing partly to the influence of Richard Williams on the team during Who Framed Roger Rabbit). Their inexperience shows, but it's such a major advancement that certain nitpicks aren't a huge deal. Mark Henn's Ariel is a bit amorphous, but Glen Kean's has a strong sense of weight and emotion. Andreas Deja tends to show off his ability to draw a nose in perspective a bit too much on King Trident, but this is testament to his skill in sculpting his masses to project a strong sense of presence. Once more, however, the spotlight is stolen by the villain, as Ruben Aquino handles Ursula's many writhing slimy tentacles and sheer evil glee with the adeptness of a Milt Kahl or a Bill Tytla. Disney's animators improved in strides over the next few films, but for once it's a joy to see a Disney product that prides character animation over cost cutting.I have issues with the fact that The Little Mermaid set a precedent that the entire industry would adhere blindly to out of fear. I can't fault this on the original movie however, and I enjoy it for what it is. Unlike, say, Princess and the Frog or (God forbid) Quest for Camelot it's not insulting, and it's completely satisfying. It's not my favorite Disney movie by any means, but if I ever have daughters I won't mind picking this up for them to experience themselves (along with superior female coming of age stories like Kiki's Delivery Service). For once, this mermaid's earned herself a soul.Also, the fact that Ariel's in a clamshell bra and we see her pantsless is testament to the fact that children's animators are all perverts. Pubescent children all over the world thank them for it.

**** *YEAR_1990

Aladdin is one of the best animated Disney films! It's fun with stunning animation! The characters are great, the story is exciting, the comedy is hilarious, and the music is beautiful! A Whole New World is gorgeous and such an amazing song. Jasmine and Aladdin are adorable, while Genie steals the show.A fantastic film from start to finish!
One of the best Disney movies. Great animation that moves quick and great characters.Robin Williams as the Genie is perfect casting and he brings a lot to the character that makes it funny and entertaining.The songs are well done especially 'Friend Like Me' by Robin Williams as the Genie.A great Disney classic that can be enjoyed by everyone.
If I had three wishes:
1. I wish I found robin williams funnier (he tries sooo hard)
2. I wish the folks at Disney recognised sub par tunes when they heard them (better yet - no songs at all!).3. Stop using animation that looks like it was designed for a tv commercial.
I thought it was a really good movie, it has a lot of great songs, the animation is awesome and they picked the right actors to play the characters in this movie.
Don't waste your time watching the live action. Just watch this version twice.
This movie is awesome, and the humorless clowns at Disney who put a little apology before it when you watch it on Disney plus can go flog themselves.
Aladdin is truly an enjoyable story and fun to watch. Every child should have this film and similar Disney films as part of their childhood. The music, story, themes, humour and beautiful direction helped propel Disney as the powerhouse we know today. A real treat and easy to watch animated film.
Tbh this movie isn't recommended for older people or people that generally that don't like kids movies. It has alot of positive messages and was a great idea for a movie.Solid story though felt shallow but had pretty good pacing. Characters are quiet interesting. Al, who struggles to being himself. His love interest, a princess named Jasmine who struggles to find a place behind her palace's wall. And some of the comical reliefs such as Genie and Abu. The visuals isnt the best I have seen better from older Disney movies but was above average Lastly the vocie acting was great and the music and songs were likable.Overall a semi enjoyable film.Memorable: No Rewatchable: Quiet unlikely..
Walt Disney's Aladdin! Who doesn't love Aladdin? Do you know I watched this film so much as a child, I quite literally wore the tape out, it kept jumping. I am now the proud owner of it on Blu-Ray, It looks absolutely gorgeous. Ron Clements directed this beauty alongside John Musker, Ron also brought us great Disney movies like 'The Little Mermaid' and Walt Disney's 'Hercules' as well as this wonderful film. He's got a gift that's for sure, because all three are absolutely fantastic movies, this movie personally probably being his best. Sadly he hasn't directed much since Disney's 'The Princess in the Frog' back in 2009.I love each and everyone of the characters in this movie, this is by far one of my most favourite Disney movies, I honestly watched it so many times as a child as I mentioned before and when chatting to friends and family, they often state it's one of their favourites. I'm not gonna lie though Jafar really used to scare me, I guess that was their intention though right? He's the bad guy. So his character was portrayed as quite authoritative, serious and very sinister. I think Aladdin appealed to a lot of people too with his character, he was made to be likable, so that you felt sorry for him, the relationship between him and Jasmine doesn't start off great, they still have great chemistry though. The combination works perfectly due to the circumstances they are thrust upon in the movie too. Aladdin is the ultimate hero!You've got to love the Cave of Wonders, there's so much to look at the whole time! We're introduced to some pretty awesome characters here too! This is where we're introduced to the Geenie performed by the incredible late Robin Williams. He's absolutely marvelous, you will instantly fall in love with his character, he's hilarious, the characterization is fantastic! The Geenie as a bumblee too is the funniest thing ever! Remember beeee yourself!The animation in this movie is absolutely gorgeous, it looks even better on Blu-Ray too. The use of colours are beautiful, lots of reds, yellows, browns, desert colours. It works perfectly along with the gorgeous set design too. The soundtrack is absolutely wonderful, with hit songs like 'Whole new world' and 'Friend like me' sung by the wonderful Robin Williams. You'll soon get addicted and find yourself going round the house singing the songs.If your a massive Disney fan and have never seen this, you really must, it's definitely one of the best Disney movies of 1992! You'll find yourself singing the songs, quoting the lines and telling all your friends about it. Really suitable for children and family's. Your little girls, will want to be Princess Jasmine believe me, I did. Your boys might even want to be Aladdin! Definitely worth a go!Cannot recommend this film enough! Give it a go!
My alphabetical trawl though Disney plus finally lands me on a piece of gold, admittedly, previously seen and often enjoyed gold, but gold, nonetheless. 'Aladdin' is one of the classic hits from that early 90's golden period that Disney enjoyed, and it really deserves the praise it received.Whilst hustling and stealing on the streets of Agrabah, Aladdin (Scott Weinger) meets Princess Jasmine (Linda Larkin) who is touring the city incognito and falls in love with her. Jafar (Johnathan Freeman) discovers that Aladdin's pure heart makes him the only person who can enter the cave of wonders and retrieve a lamp, that he needs for his evil plans. But with the lamp, and more specifically the genie (Robin Williams) inside Aladdin can also make his dreams for the future come true.I mean, it's a classic in the truest sense of the word. The Animation, coming at the cross over between hand drawn cel animation and CGI work is really great. The songs might be the best collection that any one Disney film has and then there's that performance from Robin Williams and the Genie. A whirling dervish of spontaneous energy, catchphrases and imitations that I don't think anybody else in the history of Hollywood would have the ability to provide. (Evidenced by the ever talented Dan Castellaneta's impression in the sequel). It's a good story too, with a moral centre about eventually learning being true to yourself in light of whatever obstacles are put in your way.Not sure what more can be said, it's fantastic.
Aladdin remains a worthy treasure to my film library with it's wonderful Disney animation and storyline!!!
While 'Aladdin' follows the usual Disney template, it's thrust into greatness by the incomparable (and sadly late) Robin Williams. The legendary comedian is able to reign in his usual raunchy humour for a family audience but still be hillarious.Take Williams away and you've got a familiar fish-put-of-water love story, cute comic relief animal side characters (including an expressive magic carpet), bombastic songs, a power-hungry villain, and the expected happy ending. It's Disney 101.It takes 35 minutes for Williams' Genie to appear and he wastes no time cracking out the improv, the countless accents, and impressions. There's a theory that the story is set in a dystopian wasteland, which explains all of the Genie's pop-culture references. Or it's simply a case of the producers letting Williams' powerful imagination run wild.Along with 'Mrs Doubtfire', 'Aladdin' is probably Williams' greatest comedic role, if not the most fun.
With toe tapping songs, wonderful animation and great,memorable characters, Aladdin is one hell of a magic carpet ride from start to finish!!
This cartoon made my childhood so happy. I was watching it countless times since I was 10.
Usually I say that Disney and Hollywood spoil books, but this one is based on Arabic story and was changed tremendously - and to the best.
This cartoon is great - it's so bright, coloured and shining. It has magic, love, adventure, friendship, betrayal, bravery, funny jokes, twists of the plot, disappointment and hope i.e. that every kid and adult likes and needs.
The music is just all-time classics.
It's a shame that voice acting has never been honored at the Academy other than personal recognition for their talents because Robin Williams certainly deserved an Oscar for his work here. Once you start to get used to the Broadway style voices for these middle eastern characters, you can truly enjoy this, and that's pretty much my only gripe about my favorite modern Disney animated musical.The tongue was definitely in Robin Williams' cheek that the animators utilized to enhance his characterization of the genie in this update of the famous classic tale. Of course, the character of street beggar and thief Aladdin is far too clean cut so it takes some dramatic license to accept this aspect of the leading hero, certainly not how Sabu played similar characters in the 1930's and 40's. Here, he's like something out of teenbeat rather than someone stealing to avoid starving.The story is enhanced by the songs and of course how Williams, Scott Weigert (Aladdin's voice, sung by Brad Kane) and Linda Larkin (providing the voice of feisty Princess Jasmine, sung by Lea Salonga), and the delightful villainy of Jonathan Freeman as the deadpan Jafar, a role he played live decades later in the Broadway musical.The styles utilized here will be recognized from many cultural references of even the most obscure mediums, with Williams utilizing his knowledge of the classic comics and other personalities to mimic them with respect. had to spend on badly, it would have dated this instantly but because of how it's done, that aspect of this will remain dateless. It's magical and romantic and certainly one for the entire family as well as people without families. In fact, this will be of interest to young boys who will enjoy the adventure aspect of it since it's much more than the typical Disney princess mentality.
Okay mid 90s and it was okay to hire mostly whites people to voice over for middle eastern actors which deserved the part. This would not fly today and it shouldn't have then. Times have a changed and I like to think of this was made today it would be diverse and inclusive of the culture it represents.The music is amazing and no one can deny that. The animation and scenes are spectacular. The story board was superbly done, obviously Disney put serious time into the development of the characters.Best part of this: Robin Williams. So as I said before today he may not and should not have been cast but he was and left this gem. Only RW could represent Genie like this in such a comedic way but with such passion and love. It is likely the best voice over work ever performed in an animated movie. It will go down as his crowning gem outside live action films such as Dead Poets Society and Good Will Hunting. My goodness he was gifted.Children and adults can love this film for ages and remember the timeline it was made. Iagos rants are legendary. Enjoy Aladdin for its originality and its score for it is one of Disney's best of all time.
'Aladdin (1992)' is enhanced greatly by the presence of Robin Williams, who brings his big blue character to life with charming gusto. Though the genie is always entertaining to watch, he isn't the only enjoyable thing about the affair. In fact, it's generally quite a bit of fun. It has several likeable characters, an effectively dastardly villain and a decent message, to boot. It also has one of the strongest soundtracks in Disney's repertoire. It's a great animated affair that deserves to be remembered as fondly as it is. It puts its remake to shame. 7/10
The story, the style, the atmosphere, the music and the characters, everything is amazing! I really can't think of something bad. Okay, maybe I don't like the pop culture references, but hey it's a 90s movie, so who cares? Jafar is an amazing, interesting villains with a clear motivation. Aladdin is just a lovable protagonist and Jasmine a great love interest. That makes a lovely couple who I can root for and will defend.The sultan isn't as dumb as I thought he would be. For me he is the main comedic character. The songs feel really special and really add a whole new dimension to the story. The animation is really and fits very well with the atmosphere. The first scene really sets the tone for me. I immediately knew it was going to be good. The story itself is actually really interesting and character driven, but I will never accept Jasmine didn't know about Aladdin until the reveal, but it's probably just me. If you haven't seen it, you should watch it for yourself!
Magic, adventures, and laughter.. 'Aladdin' includes everything Disney can offer. The story is very rich, full of flavors. 1. The cave of wonder phase: how Aladdin attains the magic lamp. 2. The Prince Ali phase: Aladdin and Jasmine's love story. 3. The phase where Aladdin, Jasmine, and Genie fight against Jafar. Music, of course, is splendid, Disney guaranteed. I also love the fact that princess character in this movie has developed to be more active, straightforward, and independent compared to previous Ariel and Belle, or way further Snow White, Aurora, or Cinderella.A few weakness... The color is too bold and a little tacky.. making my eyes hurt especially in 'Friend Like Me' scenes. Genie.. he is a great sidekick, supportive and hilarious. However, sometimes he is too much to handle, making my ears hurt.
A Disney classic, with the melodies that stay in the head. A love story told in the desert, a place where nothing thrives and bears fruit, different from the passion that Aladdin feels for Jasmine. With sensational characters and a very cunning villain, who doesn't remember the genius song in the cave? I remember it very well and I never want to forget it because it is a song that was part of the childhood of many people.Film reviewed on November 18, 2020.
The story is good and the pace is high. 'Aladdin' is not too short and it's not too long, it's not too immature and it's not too mature, it's a perfect movie for the entire family with a wonderful love story (even though it's no 'Beauty and the Beast') and good animations with some good looking early computer effects. The songs and music in general are just great and very memorable. Jafar is a great villain mainly because he is voiced by Jonathan Freeman who has got a good and scary voice. But what is maybe the best element of the movie is Robin Williams as the blue genie. The blue genie is like a jokemachine that once it is started can't stop again and keeps you laughing.Without all those jokes - and the great visuals that go with those gags (things popping up like Saturday morning cartoons), this would just be a routine Disney animated film. Part of the normal Disney fare includes a hero who is a good guy but a liar and a heroine who is the typical wasp-waisted beauty who is rebellious against the rules of the day. The villain is an 'Oil Can Harry' mustached dastardly employee of the king who desires king-like powers. His scenes, however, are tempered with humor thanks to his New York City-sounding obnoxious parrot, who provides most of the movie's slapstick humor.
Iago is the funniest character of this movie, along with the Genie. Nobody better than Gilbert Gottfried to voice the sarcastic parrot. Iago is simply hilarious! He's rude, grumpy, sarcastic, hungry for power, malicious, obnoxious and foul-tempered. He has an irritating voice but in a funny way, as well as a great talent to perfectly mimic other characters's voices. However, deep down inside he has a heart. I also love his hate for crackers. I don't see why does he hates crackers so much, but that also makes him so funny! Besides, a parrot with teeth?? lol!By the way, I absolutely love the song 'A Whole New World'. The version sung by Aladdin and Jasmine is great, but the original version of Peabo Bryson and Regina Belle is better, deeper and more romantic and classic. It's a very romantic and joyful song, which is always a pleasure to listen. 'Arabian Nights' is a nice song as well...A person pf pure spirit is the only one who can grab a mystical lamp which is the heart of his plan. When things go wrong for Jafar (thanks to that quick monkey) Aladdin discovers the secret of the lamp and the comic hilarity that lay inside. Aladdin gets three wishes from the *ahem* Genie in the bottle (voiced by the perfectly cast Robin Williams) and Al's life will never be the same. Will Aladdin fulfill his deepest desires or will he rescue the princess and take a magic carpet ride into the sunset? 'Aladdin' is a beautiful melding of computer generated and standard animation that paved the way for Disney's best feature (The Lion King). Wonderfully magical story with some seriously crazy comedians at work, 'Aladdin' is great fun for the whole family.
I do not see this as anything special. It's full of songs, it's short and most of the story is filled with songs. The storyline is simple and goes as predicted. It was kind of fun to watch, but I wouldn't watch it again.
Very fun movie, I recommend watching it, and Jasmine is the best Disney princess in my mind
A very fun movie that contains fun characters especially the genie, the carpet, the monkey and the parrot, and Robin Williams is better than Will Smith in the performance of the Genie character
Aladdin is a poor street hedgehog who spends time stealing food from the market in the city of Agrabah. His adventures begin when he meets a young girl who happens to be Princess Jasmine, who is forced to marry by her wacky but estranged father. Aladdin's luck suddenly changes when he takes a magic lamp from the Cave of Miracles. What he unconsciously gets is a spirit that loves fun and just wants to have his freedom. They know little that the sultan's sinister adviser Jafar has his plans for both Arabs. It Is Called Aladdin and the lamp
I respect what it tries to be. A simp movie for children. It isn't bad, I just don't care for it.Yea there is passion and heart in Aladdin frankly it's not enough.Aladdin is an adventurous romance, mild violent movie that failed to make me care about it.Aladdin has many iCONIC characters and it has a simp called Alladin.I like Aladdin but it's not anywhere near my fav. It's a simp movie about a prince getting a girl on his flying carpet. Evil ugly guy appears and so dose a giant genie.The genie can grant anything but still fails to make this movie and characters interesting.Live action Aladdin looks like hashy seagull droppings.Verdict: I don't care for Aladdin.
It has a good story that goes along with an amazing SFX and all the CGI side.
I wanto just say something about the villain, Jafar. Probably I have been expected a bit more window for him and not just a couple of core scenes,
Overall is an amazing film!
Aladin has some of the greatest use of animation, high quality jokes, memroable characters, engaging action and containing a pretty complex story that has a lot of heart and a great execution. It always taking care that it makes any of the plots feel fresh and each of the jokes feel fresh. Actually, even if does emphasize the jokes, it always remember to tell its story, and that's what makes it have such a great story and makes it all such a great film. About the songs, they each deliver a memroable asset to the movie, and each emphasize the tone of the scene. Aladin will forever be remembered as one of the greatest animated movies of *all time.*
... or falafel or baba ghanoush, they all smell and taste outstanding, as outstanding as this piece of delicious and delightful Disney animation that gives satisfaction to the most devouring of cinephiles appetites. The cherry on the cake being the unique and brilliant voice of the genie, the voice of a true entertainer and genieus, the voice of the unforgettable, the one and only - Robin Williams. It just so happens to have an endearingly beautiful story as well.
A classic Disney animation and one of my favorites.Strengths:Songs
Story
Villain
Lamp Genie
Funny
Aladdin is a classic. I don't care what anyone says. It hits all the right spots and the viewer stays engaged. It's got everything.Probably might be one of my favorite Disney classicsSee it8 stars
The magical, the mystical, the mysterious -- all those powers that lurk within movies but are rarely tapped are unleashed in Disney's latest magnificent animation, Aladdin.
This film is essentially based around Robin Williams, no doubt about it. The story, characters and music are all very engaging and memorable. The protagonist, being a street urchin, is an underdog character who we all root for. The animation of the Genie and Jafar are really great as well.
This films are the best thing that has ever happened to me and I will be there
What works:
Very clever and fun movie that's a classic for a reason. Robin Williams as the genie is incredible, the story is great, the music is great. Everything about this works. It's a movie any kid can enjoy.What doesn't:
Nothing. Pretty flawless film from Disney and why I give it 10/10.
Persian rags to riches tale turned into a musical extravaganza. Robin Williams and the music shine.Screenplay...................................... 8 / 10 Acting...............................................9 Animation....................................... 10 Sound................................................. 9 Editing................................................ 9 Score..................................................... 10 Total.................................................... 55 / 60 = 9.2 (which I rounded down to a 9) Verdict................................................. Must-watch
1989 to 1994 was a golden period for Disney and Aladdin was one of their best films from this era. Loosely based on the story from the Arabian Nights stories Aladdin was a beautifully animated adventure film with some big Boardway style musical numbers like 'One Jump Ahead,' 'Prince Ali,' and 'A Whole New World.' Worked for boys and girls because it was an fantasy-adventure, a love story, and a story about friendship. A great film for the whole family.
Robin Williams - that's all that really needs to be said.1992's 'Aladdin' is simply outstanding! There's so much which is great about it, but it is Mr. Williams who elevates the film up a notch. He is hilarious in the role of Genie, every joke lands thanks to his impeccable delivery - the animation plays a huge part also, so credit to those behind the scenes.Away from him, you still have numerous pluses. Scott Weinger and Linda Larkin are good as Aladdin and Jasmine, but Jonathan Freeman steals the show under Williams with a top notch display as Jafar. Gilbert Gottfried also brings the laughs as Iago. A terrific bunch of characters.The premise is fascinating, with the ending enthralling to watch. Alan Menken's music is utterly superb, with a whole collection of amazing songs - my standouts being 'Prince Ali' and 'One Jump Ahead'.I enjoy the 2019 live-action film, but there's simply no beating this original. A must-watch for all.
I have to say, I know why some people don't like this movie, not everyone is willing to believe in fairy tales, yeah, why should I believe it? I also know that such stories cannot happen, so if you are not interested in fairy tales by nature, and you don't look at any of Disney's real-life fairy tale movies, then you don't have to go to the movie theater under the name of calcium guide. No fun, you still won't like it.
However, if you are a fan of the original animation, obsessed with Disney's years of innocence and childlike innocence, or still cherish the beauty of the fairy tale world, willing to believe in the unknown miracles in life, then my friend, I sincerely ask you Recommend this movie.
Magic, adventures, laughs, love... This film has everything mixed, and the result is quite good! The film is about the classic tale of 'Aladdin and the magic lamp', so the story is well known by everybody. Despite it is for children, the quality of the characters is very good, the story, though predictable and typical, results interesting and, which is more important, it males us to spend a good hour and a half. The songs (typical in Disney) never are boring, and are surprisingly well mixed with images. In addition, action scenes are well ended and most characters are very charismatic. Aladdin is sympathetic form the beginning and most secondary characters are simply perfect. The 'acting' of the Genius is superb in his strangeness and absurd, and Yafar is well remembered as one of the 'best' bad ones of the history of cinema. It exhales an immense aura of evilness hardly ever seen in a movie... To sum up, one of the best (maybe the best) Disney film made, which everything to have a nice afternoon with your children or just spending a nice time laughing and remembering when you were a child.
I loved this movie as a kid, and 20+ years later it still hold up as a favourite! The songs are good and catchy, and I find myself singing them to this day!
This animation is very awesome. Wonderful, genius.
A beggar, by virtue of its kind heart, good skill, get a princess a kiss fangze, get the spirit of eternal friendship.
Three wishes did not change its character.
Three wishes, make it a hero.
Three wishes, to achieve their own wishes.
In life, I actually have been thinking, if I have a wish, what would I want to achieve? But no matter what I think, in the end, I will always be like Aladdin, and let the genie be free.
This movie is amazing. i haven't seen it since i was a kid. i watched the live-action remake and while i was disappointed (5/10), i realized that the story was really good. so i decided to give the original another try. and i was so completely impressed.the movie is very funny, especially robin williams' performance. abu also cracked me up. the story is great. and the movie made me feel emotions throughout. happy, sad, anxious, triumphant, etc.but the thing that made this movie work so well with me was the music. i generally dislike musicals. it's the reason i haven't gone back to most older disney animated movies. but man oh man. every single song in this movie is awesome. they were giving me goosebumps. maybe partly due to the nostalgia, but mostly due to them being beastly.there were also a bunch of really creative parts with the animation and certain action sequences. so many memorable scenes. and it felt so fast paced, with major plot points almost constantly. i was fully into the movie and didn't really feel time lol (about 6 viewings, 5/16/2020)
This film has taught me that as long as you are brave and kind and go forward, you can overcome any difficulty and you can succeed
The voice of Robin Williams as the genie stands out in this retelling of the classic tale about Aladdin who falls in love with Princess Jasmine but cannot marry her because she can only marry a prince. The lovely song 'A Whole New World' is one of many that enrich the film. The lesson: Be careful what you wish for, you might get it. ---from Musicals on the Silver Screen, American Library Association, 2013
Incredible fantasy love story in a dreamy scenographic setting!
Watched Aladdin amazing voice Performances from Scott Weigner(Police Academy 5) as Aladdin, Robin Williams(Jumanji) as Genie also starring Linda Larkin(Zapped Again) as Jasmine, Gilbert Gottfried(Beverly Hills Cop 2) as Iago, Frank Welker(Transformers: The Movie) as Abu, Jim Cummings(Castle In The Sky) as Razoul and Jonathan Freemen(Homeboy) as Jafar.The film is great about a humble thief who steals what he can and for others also his desire it, not riches but a woman which is great also I loved Aladdin and Jafar use Genie for Opposite Means Aladdin just wants woo Jasmine and Jafar is in for the power and proves to be his downfall a theme i dug also Jafar is one more entertaining villains of the renaissance along with Ursula, Scar and Hades A Great Meaningful Retelling of Ali BabaAmazing score Alan Menken(Beauty And The Beast), Directing By Ron Clements(The Great Mouse Detective) & John Musker(The Little Mermaid) A Great Meaningful Retelling of Ali Baba 10/10
I've been thinking about what I'd like to achieve if I had a wish, but whatever it is, I'll end up like Aladdin and set the genie free. A beggar with its kind heart, good skills, get a kiss of the princess, get the eternal friendship of the elves, this is my enlightenment movie animation is also the beginning of my dream movie animation.
Although the live-action version made a big change on the basis of the original animation when shooting.I still like the original version, and each version has advantages.I hope Disney can make more excellent animated movies and live-action movies.
I revisited this film as an adult, having watched as a child but forgotten how it went. That made sense as I rewatched, it's a pleasant film to watch, with a simple enough plot, and the genie definitely is largely responsible for that.Its short, and as a result does the job of a nice easy watch. I would say also it hasn't aged incredibly well from 1992, e.g. pretty superficial and can see why it can give a damaging message to children on body image and status and what not.
Really really enjoyed this film. A true disney classic. Consiering i'm 22 now, parts of this film had me in stitches. Robin Williams (R.I.P) plays the Genie roll SO well. A cheesey love story that well and truelly allows you to appreciate how big of an impact Disney had on many peoples childhoods.
This movie has taught me that if you keep your promises, cherish your friendships, and live up to the expectations of others, you can be a man who is invincible, even if you have no magic.
Certainly one of the better animations from the reinvigorated 1990's Disney Studio. It still has the schmaltzy, over sentimental treatment that seems to torment me every time I watch a Disney film, but the characterisations of the 'Genie' (Robin Williams') and the evil 'Jafar' (Jonathan Freeman) are great as are the rest of the vocal acting talent (rather than using established stars). The script is punchy, well written and has plenty for folks of all ages to engage with. The songs are well paced and amusing and nowhere near as shouty as we have become used to in later animations. All in all this sits well as en enjoyable take on an an enjoyable Arabian Nights style story.
My Aladdin lamp! My three wishes ~ ~ ~ when collecting animated films, I saw the clips of 'lamp God' coming out, and when I heard his nonsense and funny lines, I was full of the impulse to relive them. Later, it took many days to show it to the children. I picked up this work many years later and found that the film was more hilarious than I had ever thought. I like the fake and improper 'magic lamp' so much that I can't make us laugh!
The romance plot is a little off (Jasmine obviously liked him as a pauper, so why was he such a haughty prince-especially after she showed her distaste? Well, a magic carpet ride will solve everything), but the two are sympathetic at least (see Aladdin's fun opening song and Jasmine's 'well maybe I don't want to be a princess!'). Elsewhere, the excellent villain, the hilarious Genie, and intriguing magical underpinnings help create a twisty, exciting adventure punctuated by great humour.
7.5/10
From start to finish, Aladdin is timeless classic! Very funny, very exciting and intense, amazing visuals, and excellent pacing! The story is also amazing, as are the characters. Holy crap do the characters in this movie rock! They all play a very important role in the movie. You have Aladdin and Abu as two fearless adventurers/thieves, Jasmine as one of the best and most charming Disney princesses of all time, Jafar as the highly cunning, intelligent, and awesome sorcerer and one of the best Disney villains of all time, Iago, who has to be the best henchman of any villain in any movie (he and Jafar are the best together), and of course, the Genie. From his design to his style to pretty much everything there is about him, he absolutely steals the show! From the moment he appears during the movie, he is just seems so much like the the star of the movie. Robin Williams as the Genie is one of the best performances in any animated movie. Aladdin is such an awesome movie that I can't give it anything other than 10 out of 10
The amazing voice work and comedy of Robin Williams and Gilbert Gottfried ... does it get any better than that? All the songs are amazing but the magic the Genie brings to 'Friend Like Me' and 'Prince Ali' are what make them really special. I remember how Disney at the time was showing off how they used a combination of hand drawn animation and CGI together for the first time, to bring the cave of wonders sequence to life and it still holds up.I was the perfect age for the start of the Disney renissance, and while the 'Little Mermaid' and 'Beauty and The Beast' felt like girly movies at the time, Aladdin was a film that had the action, adventure, and comedy that truly captured my imagination as a kid.Aladdin and Jasmine are great, but the side characters are what really make it shine with all the spunk that Abu, Carpet, Genie, and Iago bring to the mix. And Jafar makes for a really sinister villian that reminds me of Rasputin from Russian History.'Come on down stop on by. Hop a carpet and fly. To another Arabian night.'
Aladdin at least this one is one of my favourite disney animated films since it has a lot of staff to love,but for me and probably many others the best part was robin williams as genie where he give one of best voice acting performances and every his joke and line was funny and enterteining,jafar is also one of best disney villains next to scar and gaston and they all make holy trio of villains,animation is still very good today and it holds up in most of the film,when we discuss film lets not forget a very beautiful landscape and use of location and i think that making story in arabian world was a big plus,aladdin is one of disneys classics and far better then that unneceserey will smith remake
This film is absolutely amazing another film I cannot count how many times I have watched it. Entertainment from beginning to end and again Robin Williams steals the show. Some of the most memorable songs in all childrens films
Really good movie with great music. The sense of exploration is unparalleled.
Robin Williams as the genie is perfection. Don't get me wrong, the rest of this is great too but the genie is HIS role without contest. The only real negative I have for this movie is the early 90's racism that was pretty much just accepted back then but isn't cool now.It's Aladdin though. It's a classic. The only good thing about the live action one coming out is that maybe more people will go back and watch this.
I wish I could've lived this Life! Looks so fun and adventurous. 3 wishes just by rubbing a lamp? I'm not too sure what my wishes would be though.
Aladdin dazzles at every turn - from the clever, hilarious script to the vintage William's performance, you can't help but be enamored with the street-rat-turned-hero. The classic songs capture the heart and make our wishes for good storytelling come true!
Everybody seems to love Disney's 'Aladdin'...and it is a wonderful film. However, one aspect of it bothered me long ago and still does....Jasmine. Think about it for a moment. Her people are poor, hungry and being oppressed. However, at the same time, she's living in complete luxury...nearly all of her wishes being granted. However, despite that, she wants to run around Baghdad pretending she's poor and hanging out the 'little people'! Doesn't this sound a bit like Queen Marie Antoinette? Such a selfish and annoying girl...in an otherwise enjoyable Disney cartoon. This and Aladdin's propensity to lie, lie, lie make it a film that is problematic and I just didn't enjoy it as much as many viewers. Still, it is worth seeing...with lovely animation and catchy songs....despite an annoying Disney princess.
Fan-freaking-tactic Disney Classic. Great animation, voice acting, characters, and story. This one never gets old.
Colorful and fun with some hints of darkness that keep u watching. A classic disney. Memorable characters and an outright spectacular, dreamy narative.
There's just something about Aladdin. A lot of people like Aladdin compared to any other Disney movie. The movie was very good. This is a movie you can never forget.My favourite parts was all to do with Jafar. He was terrific in this movie. I also liked his sidekick in Iago. Let's not forget the most popular of all the characters called the Genie, who happens to grant you three wishes. It's a movie where Aladdin takes on Jafar. I like Jafar by the way. I think he's one of the greatest Disney movie villains there is.What makes Aladdin succeed is down to its enemies. Aladdin has a lot of enemies, yet he's still difficult to take down no matter what. Aladdin is very quick. I'm surprised with his speed.The movie is fine and wonderful. It gets more and more interesting for sure. It's definitely watchable.I already made reviews on both the sequels of Aladdin, and I honestly think the sequels are better than the original movie. It's something Aladdin fans can be proud about.Everyone talks about these movie trilogies, but the one we often forget about is the Aladdin one, which is also very underrated. Each of the Aladdin movies, including the original one, are successful movies, and probably the best Disney movie trilogy going around. I can't really think of others that can compare to Aladdin.Aladdin is a fantastic movie, and one of the more popular Disney movies around even till now, and I'm talking about the original one.Unfortunately, the same can't be said for its sequels, and I would like for that to be changed though because I think it's just as good as Aladdin if not better.
This classic Disney film is centred on the eponymous Aladdin, a street urchin in the city of Agrabah. Here he survives by stealing food, along with his monkey, Abu. His life is about to change because of two people from the palace. One is Jafar, the scheming Royal Vizier, who needs a 'diamond in the rough' to retrieve a magical lamp from the 'Cave of Wonders'. The other is Princess Jasmine who must marry in three days but hasn't found a suitable princely suitor. Fed up with the restrictive life in the palace she dresses in peasant clothes and goes into the city, where she meets Aladdin. Events lead to him being captured and forced to enter the Cave of Wonders; here he finds the lamp and releases the genie inside... it offers him three wishes. There are a few catches so Aladdin must use the wishes wisely... he must also avoid Jafar who wants the genie's power.I really enjoyed this Disney animation. The story provides a fine mix of thrills, romance, comedy and solid songs. Aladdin himself is a likeable male lead and Jasmine is a good female lead. Jafar is a great villain, menacing without being too scary for younger viewers. However it is the genie, voiced by the Robin Williams on great form, who steals the show whenever he is on screen. As one would expect the animation is of a high quality; with 2D characters impressively immersed in 3D scenes. The songs are so good you'll likely find yourself humming them afterwards. Overall I'd certainly recommend this to fans of quality animation.
The best movie I've seen in my whole life. The best animation, best music, without a doubt the best in many aspects.
LEAVE it to Walt Disney Pictures to teach us something new about an old story. According to the Disney studio, the tale of 'Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp' did not originate in the collection known as 'The Arabian Nights' or 'The Thousand and One Nights' more than 1,000 years ago. Rather, it first appeared in a French storybook of the early 18th century, translated by a scholar who probably learned it from a Syrian colleague.Just about anything can be grist for the Disney mill, however, from Brothers Grimm classics to contemporary fables. In its new 'Aladdin,' the studio has done its usual excellent job of making the origin and evolution of its story seem infinitely less relevant than its moment-to-moment impact on the wide screen.Our hero struts and sings his way through surroundings influenced by centuries-old Persian miniature paintings and Arabian calligraphy - and through it all he seems as modern, accessible, and Disneyesque as if he'd been dreamed up yesterday morning by a Hollywood story consultant.In this respect as in others, 'Aladdin' is a worthy successor to such recent Disney hits as 'The Little Mermaid' and 'Beauty and the Beast,' which appealed not only to children but also to the grownups who carted them to theaters in astonishing numbers.The movie won't deepen your understanding of Eastern mythology, Arabic culture, or anything else of consequence, and it's regrettable that negative ethnic stereotypes are reinforced by some aspects of the picture. But since the point of the show is to revel in sheer fantasy, whimsy, and energy, the most sensible response is to sit back and enjoy the evanescent eye candy it provides.
Fewer jobs at City Hall - one way Flynn can begin to arrest the deficitThe title character of 'Aladdin,' a street thief who wins a princess and vanquishes a vizier with help from a friendly genie, fits the usual Disney pattern. Openly modeled on contemporary media types like Tom Cruise and Michael J. Fox, with a dash of rap-music star M.C. Hammer for good measure, he's simultaneously brash and bashful in ways designed to mirror pop-psychology notions of teenage behavior. Jasmine, the princess of his dreams, is less carefully worked out but equally likable as a personality type.Typically for a Disney production, though, the movie's best fun arises not from its hero and heroine but from a secondary figure who helps them reach their goals: the hyperactive Genie, modeled directly on the hyperactive Robin Williams, who provides the character's voice. 'Character' is really the wrong word here, since this Genie is a one-person variety show of imitations, impressions, and Post-Modern pastiches whose voice and appearance can change in the twinkling of a Hollywood edit - mimicking child ren's favorites like Pinocchio, grownup icons like William F. Buckley Jr., and others too numerous to mention or even keep track of. Rarely have Mr. Williams's talents been put to better use, and all this without even showing his face!Also worth special mention is the music score by composer Alan Menken, lyricist Tom Rice, and the late wordsmith Howard Ashman, who died not long after 'Beauty and the Beast' was completed. Although there's no single song in 'Aladdin' that equals the catchiness of 'Under the Sea' from 'The Little Mermaid' or the hilarity of 'Gaston' from 'Beauty and the Beast,' their work is consistently genial.When the animators pull out all their stops to match a particularly ebullient song - most notably the 'Friend Like Me' production number, which recalls 'Be Our Guest' from the 'Beauty and the Beast' score - the results are simply dazzling.All kinds of technical wizardry went into the making of 'Aladdin,' including computer-generated effects that allow for visual feats (the contortions of an anthropomorphic flying carpet, for example) that would have been impossible a few years ago. Still, most youngsters and parents will care more about the movie's on-screen appearance than its behind-the-scenes calculations, and 'Aladdin' manages to be spectacular without seeming gratuitous or pretentious.To my eyes, 'Aladdin' has less narrative wit and from-the-heart imagination than true Disney classics like 'Pinocchio' or 'Dumbo' in years gone by, but such comparisons won't matter to young spectators who take 'Aladdin' on its own high-stepping terms. Directed by John Musker and Ron Clements, it's the best animated fun of the year, and you don't need a lamp or a genie to enjoy it.
Funny. Memorable animation. Robin Williams in top form. Stay away from the rehashed nostalgia-inspired live action horror show of 2019. The OG rings true.
Greetings from Lithuania.'Aladdin' (1992) is a pure Disney classic. It has great pacing, superbly cute music and heroes to root for. Its extremely well animated, and voice acting was excellent.Overall, because many of people have probably saw this classic already - if you haven't yet, do yourself a favor and watch it, its really good.
Rating9/10This superb entertainer still holds up. After a slightly dull opening section, the movie takes off when the genie appears. Robin Williams is great in a role tailer made for him. Packed with visual gags and jokes it's probably one of the funniest Disney animations.Worth watching
I do like Aladdin,despite my favorite Disney being Beauty and the Beast,I like its story more..It has a nice animation and a funny Jinn(Genie) to make it memorable.Quite interesting.9/10
Its been a long time since I have logged unto my IMDB page, today was the day. I love Aladdin, it is so romantic and beautiful!
The only thing that bothered me was how Alladin's mouth moved when he said the words with 'E' ending, like 'ME'. His mouth looked like he was saying something like 'FAR'
Robin Willia-- *cough cough* the GENIE was a great character in this film, just as Jasmine was. And...who was Aladdin again?
'Aladdin' (1992) to me is one of Disney Motion Pictures' crowning achievements. First of all, the adapted screenplay is well written, and it has absolutely perfect pacing with interesting character introductions and arcs all around.Furthermore, the film looks absolutely gorgeous, filled with vibrant and warm colour palettes, beautiful portrayals of middle eastern culture milieus, and a stunning level of detail from the city of Agrabah.The cast is overall great in terms of voice acting (e.g. Jonathan Freeman's performance of Jafar), but the performance by Robin Williams stands out unparalleled as Genie. Williams' role absolutely dominates the experience as Genie, and his signature sense of impeccable humour is vividly sensed through his animated character. As a note, his Easter egg inclusion of Jack Nicholson hitting on a woman is pure improvisational magic.Overall, an excellent animation film from Disney, and deservedly the biggest film of 1992. Within the Disney Motion Picture range of films before Pixar, I think it is only bested by 1994's 'The Lion King'.
What a masterpiece I can watch this film every day and never get bored Robin Williams at his best, Romeo and Juliet of Disney Aladdin and Princess Jasmine. A tramp who finds the love of his life and his father heartmelting.
I have never loved Aladdin as much as everyone else does and to be honest I prefer the live action remake that came out earlies this year but that dosnt mean I don't know how great this movie is. its full of charm likeable characters and fantastic musical numbers. the voice acting is incredible but Robin Williams as the genie totally steals the show he was born for the part and does everything absolutely flawlessly. the movie is very funny and jafar is one of the best Disney villains of all time. Aladdin though not a love for me is a great movie and a true classic for a reason.
File Aladdin as one of those Disney movies that will live on forever. No remake, no live action, no sequel will top this film. The cast was all great, but there is no doubt that Williams made this film with his Genie. The jokes that Williams was able to bring to the film was hands down, one of..if not the best, performance in a Disney film to date. The animation was fantastic, the storyline was great, but most importantly, Aladdin had one of the best (and most complete) soundtracks from a Disney film! 10/10!
Aladdin is my favorite movie because of three reasons.
First, the kindness of Aladdin. The most impressive scene is that Aladdin gives poor children bread which he managed to steel. Aladdin is a true gentleman because he is also poor and he doesn't have enough money and food but he did such lines behavior.
Second, the appeal of Genie. I love the scene of Genie's entrance. He comes out from the lamp and starts talking with his pace. And you ciuld be involved in his strange world with his singing and using many magics rhythmically. It could make you happy and smile.
Third, the friendship between Aladdin and Genie. The best scene you could understand the friendship is that Aladdin fights with Jafar and put him into a lamp forever. In this scene, Genie's master is not Aladdin but Jafar. So, Genie couldn't help Aladdin. However, he seems to want to help Aladdin. Finally, Aladdin win the fight with Jafar. I think the key of the victory is the best friendship of them. Aladdin really wants Genie to be free so, he come up with the great idea to win Jafar.
Aladdin makes a last wish that is not for himself but for Genie to be free. He could do that behavior because of his kindness and their friendship. And Aladdin could marry Jasmine without Genie's power. I think someone who is kind to others will be very happy someday. This movie tells you what makes you happy is not money but kind to others.
Aladdin was/STILL IS A WONDERFUL MOVIE to enjoy. The live remake portrays the movie almost accurately!!! A GREAT CAST AND STORYLINE. It has love, laughter, dark moments, sadness and a wonderful outcome for the end of the movie. WONDERFUL A+++ Film.
This was my favourite childhood film so it deserves nothing less than 10 stars. Great story combined with fantastic musical numbers, lively, interesting and essentric characters, and topped off with the very talented Robin Williams as Genre.
Will Smith did great enjoyable love the the cast were wonderful
Finally got to watch this movie today and I'm thinking I should've watched this way earlier. The plot was amazing and kept me intrigued throughout with all the interesting plot twists and action. I'm not a big fan of musicals, but I enjoyed most of the songs in the movie, and I didn't feel they were a distraction from the story like in some other animated movies. Overall, the movie is great and probably the best and most fun animated movie ever.
Beautifully animated and bright colorful in both: visuals and plot, this Disney animated classic offers the best out of the studio, with a whimsical take on the timeless Arabic tale but with tons of personality, most of all thanks to a wonderful score by Alan Menken, a solid story and, most of all, the immortally memorable-bombastic animated-voice performance by the great Robin Williams, providing one of Disney's greatest characters to date.
Aladdin is a very beautiful animated film of the whole family to enjoy. With one of your favorite characters. It's A Whole New World to enjoy this cartoon movie, with the fantastic voice actor: Robin Williams :)
Aladdin (1992) 7.5Act 1 - 7.0
Act 2 - 7.8
Act 3 - 7.7Good:Good and memorable songsStrong animationGreat sidekicksGenie arrives in 2nd actRobin Williams is a tour de force as the GenieJaffar is a good villainSmart protagonist that you can care about and has an arcGreat voice performancesJasmine is a like-able and strong characterSweet film
Bad:Some conventional plot pointsGeneric love story but the songs elevate it
Spoiler Alerts: I saw this film three times in the theater, then bought the VHS tape, then the DVD, then the Blu Ray. Yes I am one of those people from the time before cell phones and computers. LOL. I have found this film to be magical on so many level. I always felt there was a tremendous message about being who you are and loving who you are no matter where you come from. I have always loved the music and song of the entire film which is very rare for me. I love that the film was humorous, touching, and highly entertaining. Princess Jasmine is not a typical Disney princess of the past 'looking for a prince to rescue her' as her character has a voice and is strong and not dependent on a 'man' to save her. Robin Williams is brilliant as the genie and wonderfully over the top. Aladdin is my all time favorite character who is representative of someone who wants love and happiness as we all do and he learns that 'money' does not buy that. There is so much in this film about truth, honesty, and integrity. When he frees the genie as his last wish I cry every time.
Aladdin is such a fantastic, energetic, exciting, romantic film. The characters are all very lovable and zany in their own fashion (especially Genie).
The 2 main reasons I love this film are, 1: Aladdin's arch in this film is very intriguing. He goes through the journey of changing who he is to impress someone, but finds out that she preferred the unfiltered Aladdin, not Prince Ali. This is not only a great message to children, but also a very compelling journey to be a part of.
And 2: The Genie is Excellent! He is so jumpy and hilarious. He might actually be my favorite Disney character. No other person than Robbin Williams could have made him who he is.
My one complaint with this film, is that Aladdin and Jasmine fell in love with each other after being together for one day. I know it's a love at first site kinda thing, but if they gave more time to develop their relationship, then there would be a lot more hard-hitting moments in the film.
Also this film has A Whole New World. Do I even need to explain?
'Aladdin' . . . not only the best movie in the exalted Renaissance period, but also -- along with 'The Jungle Book' -- Disney's best musical. Seriously, this soundtrack is chock-full of earworms and none of them are filler.Everyone knows what this movie's best feature is (and I'll get to that in a second), but the level of quality in its animation is staggering. The color saturation is purely eye-candy, and it makes Agrabah a memorable Disney kingdom. Even the characters (some of the whitest Arabs ever put to film) have personality in their movements that you just don't expect.These assets by themselves make this a worthwhile movie, but it's Robin Williams who blasts it out of the park. His overstimulated execution leaves an indelible mark on this company's history, and the lion's share of laughs come directly from him. It's a gifted, delightful and energetic performance, and it's easy to lay the movie's vast appeal at his feet.But honestly, the whole thing is wildly entertaining.
If you enjoy reading my Spoiler-Free reviews, please follow my blog :)Aladdin is one of Disney's most adored classics, being the indisputable favorite of many, many fans. The Lion King will always have that spot in my heart, but I also visited this story set in Agrabah dozens of times. Now, with the 2019's remake about to premiere, I rewatched it last night and, once again, I fell in love. Honestly, I didn't remember how funny and entertaining it is! It still holds up incredibly well, even though the film was released almost 30 years ago. The animation still looks stunning and fluid, but it's the musical numbers and the voice work from the cast that makes this movie one of Disney's best.As it's known, Robin Williams shines in a role that stands out from his brilliant filmography, as his career-best interpretation of an animated character. Genie is one of the most versatile figures of Disney and Williams spreads out his wings of creativeness and imagination, delivering a phenomenal voice performance of the hilarious blue entity. From his seamless imitations to the simple yet extremely difficult tone changes, he gives everything. Genie appears every time the film most needs him, which is when the pacing starts to drop and needs something to pump it back up while moving the plot forward. He could merely be a plot device, but thankfully the writers gave him an unique personality with his own motivations, making us not only laugh with him but genuinely care about his destiny.That's the other main attribute of this movie: its writing. The dialogues feel realistic, grounded, and there are no real exposition scenes, besides the musical sequences, which are also meant to serve that purpose. Aladdin and Jasmine lived utterly opposite lives, and both wish to change. Each wants the other's life experiences and adventures, which provides some amazing moments between these characters. I still wish their relationship had more time to develop (something I hope the remake will do), as well as Jafar's motivations. It's 1992, and it's an animated film, but the cliche villain who wants power because 'I'm the bad guy' never quite worked. However, the menacing and dark voice of John Freeman sells this character. In addition to these protagonists, Abu and Iago are two comedy sources that perfectly work, all the time.Musically, there is no way of denying the cultural impact that the Aladdin songs had. From Arabian Nights to A Whole New World, every song is filled with rich lyrics, great rhythm, and a beautiful tone. Not only are these able to develop the character or move the plot forward, but they also help the story never to break its fast pacing. Almost 30 years later, the animation quality still looks striking, and there are so many memorable backgrounds and visually outstanding settings. Disney's 90s decade is an absolute treasure in movie history: Beauty and the Beast, Toy Story, The Lion King, Pocahontas, Mulan, Tarzan, Aladdin and a few more animated diamonds (in the rough) that went a bit under the radar.All of these will definitely get a live-action remake (some already have), and I welcome all of them. Stop trying to boycott something that will only help the new generations to fall in love with the same characters that we did. Live-action isn't here to offend our childhood or produce cheap copies of our favorite films! It isn't here to replace the originals but to honor them instead by delivering modern takes on stories that impacted us on a deep emotional level, and that will try to do the same for our children, grandsons and nephews. Are they going to be better than the source material? Worse? It doesn't really matter as long as they keep the original's essence and the traits that made us adore these unforgettable characters. And, please, stop the 'they're doing these remakes for money' argument. That can literally be said about every movie in the history of cinema. Unfortunately, entertainment is a business, it always was, and it always will be. Move on.All in all, Aladdin is a beautifully passionate story about how two incredibly different people with two completely different lifestyles can come to love each other by who they truly are. Robin Williams is a perfectly polished diamond and his scenes alone superbly elevate this film. One of Disney most impactful classics, filled with memorable songs, well-written characters, and stunning animation, which holds up remarkably still to this day. Despite some nitpicks regarding Jafar and the protagonists' relationship, Aladdin is undoubtedly an unbelievably precious gem which continues (and will continue) to be loved by newer generations all around the world.
Why why why would they make a live-action version of this?? Oh, money. This original animated version is so close to a 10/10. Robin Williams is at his best in this film as the Genie. The story is fun. The animation is great. The characters are wicked - including the bad guy. Just a great family fun!!
The US-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee protested over the pro-Western display of Aladdin and Jasmine, who is always without a veil, over the fact that all the characters with the turban are bald, and that all the villains are caricatured personifications of prejudices about the Arabs. But the fiercest protests were caused by a verse from the song 'Arabian Nights,' which opens the cartoon. The verse now reads 'Where it's flat and immense and the heat is intense, it's barbaric, but, hey, it's home'. In the original version, the verse read 'Where they cut off your ears if they don't like your face, it's barbaric, but, hey, it's home'. This provoked such an alarm that the film was placed among the most controversial achievements of all time.Personally, I find this information quite interesting, but totally irrelevant, because the animation is excellent, the music is beautiful, the story is quite solid, and the film that stars Robin Williams by default can not fail.8/10
Go watch and see for yourself why this movie deserves no less than 10
One of my favorite Disney Classics, I remember as a child this was the movie that made me truly love Robin Williams, his portrayal of the Genie was hilarious. The movie has a great message and I remember as a kid not really understanding it completely, but as an adult, I truly appreciate that I was being bombarded with messages like the one this one presents. Also, Jafar is an extremely intimidating antagonist and the character is done to perfection, especially the whole snake sequence...still gives me the creeps.Love this movie and will definitely watch it again.
When I was a child, during eid holidays Disney channel was added in my TV for three days and in that I got to see Aladdin cartoon. I don't remember any story or scenes but the only thing I remembered was that I thoroughly enjoyed it. Years later, when I was watching TV I was checking the info of coming programmes in a movie channel and I saw there was Aladdin so I thought to check it out that time though I never had any idea of the 1992 film. And when I started watching I got surprised to see those same cartoon characters I saw in my childhood. Looked like my childhood came back.
The biggest plus point of Aladdin is its mesmerizing and fascinating hand drawn animation which transports you to another world. The next plus point is its humor and light hearted treatment. All the characters shown in this film I love a lot. Charming Aladdin, stunning Jasmine, cute like a Teddy bear Sultan, cunning and wicked Jafar and his loudmouthed sidekick iago, greedy but lovable Abu, helpful magic carpet and the wholesome entertainer Genie(thanks to the super energetic Robin Williams). Only rajah was underused in the whole movie but his relationship with jasmine was shown pretty well.Last but not the least to mention is the songs which goes well with the narrative. I love all the songs especially Arabian nights, friend like me, Prince Ali and whole new world.
But the only issue which bugged me was the palace shown doesn't have any watchmen, bodyguards, servants and maid. What palace is it without them? There is only sultan, jasmine and rajah inside the palace. Did the animators forget to draw them or didn't have the budget for it?
Aladdin is the best animation movie in the world, and the best Disney film. I don't why today's Disney films don't have the magic of Aladdin.
On the whole, Aladdin is a film which nobody will hate unless you don't have a kid inside you.
The beginning of the 'House of Mouse's' renaissance era was probably the best few years since their conception. Aladdin contributes to that significantly, with its memorable songs and outstanding voice acting. A street rat is fooled into entering the Cave of Wonders and finds a mystical lamp that summons a genie, granting him three wishes. It's a simple yet effective story of the poor wanting to become wealthy, and soon transforming into something they are not.Presenting themes of envy and greed through Disney's signature animation style and huge amounts of character development. Almost immediately, each individual harness their own unique personality that make them stand out. Aladdin is this confident homeless man who remains envious of the rich. Jasmine despises the way of life she lives, not wanting to be forcefully married. Jafar, well, he's just the embodiment of evil. And the Genie is the perfect comic relief for what is an often engaging love story. The voice acting alone doesn't get enough credit, mostly because one particular actor steals all the credit. But let's address that, Robin Williams is the Genie. His comedic timing, energetic voice work and all round perfection ensures that he is the only choice for the role. What assists in his memorability are the plethora of songs that this musical boasts. Nearly every single one of them is catchy and instantly recognisable. From the romantic 'A Whole New World' to the grandeur and flamboyancy of 'Prince Ali', they all ingeniously progress the story through inventive lyrics. I'll be damned if you don't stand up and burst into 'Never Had A Friend Like Me' whilst imitating the Genie's exotic dance moves. The hand-drawn animation remains stunning with the occasional CGI object, such as the cave's entrance, complementing this style.The story itself is well paced and quickly develops during its short ninety minute runtime, however the third act unfortunately runs out of wishes. The showdown with Jafar, the Genie's release from captivity and the inevitable happy ending were all too rushed and concluded the film in an unmemorable way. It was as if Clements and Musker ran out of ideas. Still, for the most part Aladdin exhumes a magical adventure filled with romance, personality and some of Disney's best songs. My hopes for the live action even remotely coming close to this, are slim...
Thought i'd watch this again because all the weird press for the Will Smith version is around and it made me nostalgic for the real thing.And it's just so so good! There is nothing wrong with this movie except that it ends.It's pure enjoyment from start to finish and absolute escapism for people of every age.This will be a movie that I now return to whenever things are getting me down!
When this movie came out nearly 27 years ago, I enjoyed the film pretty much with my dad. It was also the second time I had a crush on a disney princess who bared her midriff. It was also great to see Robin Williams make his second animated debut as the Genie, whom his successors couldn't match up in the direct to video sequels as well as the upcoming live action remake, which will include all the original songs and a match for match recreation of the cartoon. The opening song's lyrics were changed for the home release since it was too scary at the time, and the vhs release came out with a teaser to what would become Disney's biggest animated 2d film ever, The Lion King, which like this movie as well as Dumbo, will get the live action treatment and will be more popular than Aladdin and Dumbo.
ALADDIN is among the greatest Disney movies ever! It's not perfect like SNOW WHITE or THE LION KING but it's very close.Everything in this movie is perfect: the animation is so colorful and vibrant, almost all the songs are great and catchy (my personal favourites are A FRIEND LIKE ME and PRINCE ALI), the soundtrack is awesome. Jafar is among the best Disney villains ever, voiced with pure villainy by Jonathan Freeman, and his parrot sidekick Iago is a perfect scene-stealer. Aladdin and Jasmine are very likeable and believable, but the best performance in the movie is by Robin Williams as the Genie. He has the most hilarious and best lines in the movie, and it's a very endearing character.However, even though the movie is slow in the beginning, after the Genie appears the movie is very fast-paced. Not to be missed!
Robin Williams as the genie steals the show.Wonderful animated characters fantastic music combine together and bring us Aladdin from 1001 nights.A MUST SEE!
Aladdin, is among the first innovative and outstanding animated masterpieces of Disney. Only Disney could extract such vibrant and nostalgic talent from the original story to the big screen with incredible visuals and unforgettable features.
I only recite films that I want to talk about when you've seen a movie and your body just wants to talk to all the people you met in life about the movie. Normally I only talk about how much a movie annoyed me or disappointed me because unfortunately it is the only feeling I have felt in the last few years. This movie has turned everything upside down.
I was overwhelmed from the first second by the world of the colors of the music
Usually I skip the songs in Disney movies because you just do not need them to understand the movie here I wanted to hear the music and here you really miss something if you should skip the music. There is a song that I have not listened to either in the movie nor in any other way because I just do not want to hear now but I could listen to Robin Williams as the genius for days.
May the man rest in peace he was definitely a legend who left us something big, but even so, it is a unique film with a unique display of unique animation and unique everythingOne thing I can not get over today is that Aladdin might have had a wish or that some of Jafar's stuff is not cleared up but every time I see the movie I do not care because I just want to be kidnapped by this world because it feels so good and looks so good.Of course, many things have changed but this is a movie you have to change some things because the same things do not work in different media and of course the movie is more based on the indian rather than the arabic culture but this is a fairy tale and no docu anyone who can Coin takes anyway is too stupid to enjoy movies decently.Some of my story problems are changed and clarified in the play, but we're talking about the film here and rate the movie as a whole
How could you save the movie?
I think it's a pity that I did not grow up with this movie because just like Edgar Wright movies in this movie are so many things I like or want to see more often but better late than never at least I know now what I can show my children the first Movie that almost made me cry.
This movie is completely held up by Robin William's performance, I think it was the start of the decline of Disney in the 90's that lead to a somewhat lackluster early 2000's Disney but it still has those classic moments that really make it stand above the rest. No need for the remake because this still holds up just fine among the best along with 'Lion King' and 'Beauty and the Beast'
8/10
This film is just one of the BEST looking Disney animation I have seen. The animation is just so fluid and alive. The visual backgrounds are amazing. The characters are all amazing and memerable. The songs are great, though not as catchy as The Little Mermaid. An overall grear achievement from disney.
Aladdin, a small thief from Agrabah, happens to stumble upon a charming young woman in the marketplace with whom he seems to fall deeply in love. Fooled by an old man, Aladdin gets his hands on a magical lamp which contains a magical genie who can grant any three wishes to his master. Thus, he will have to use all the help he can get to win his beloved's heart, especially from his new blue friend.This classic Disney movie presents the life of a young man who struggles with poverty but is determined to do whatever it takes to improve his situation and ultimately be with the one he loves, although she seems out of his league. It's a magical story which presents the main protagonist's struggle, his way of making hard decisions and his fight with a new enemy gained along the way. It's ok for the most part, but unfortunately, it isn't spectacular either. It is rather predictable and although it has one or two twists up its sleeve, it isn't able to maintain a high standard throughout. It even tends to be superficial in some aspects, especially regarding solving the main problems, but as it is targeted towards kids, I guess it's ok as it is.Its characters are quite stereotypical (the good guy, the evil one, the princess and so on) but manage to provide a good time, especially through the genie which as far as I'm concerned, represents the core of the movie. He's the one which brings colour into the picture, who makes you laugh out loud many times and puts a smile on your face with every apparition. Robin Williams has done a truly impressive job voice acting this character, making it one of a kind. I should also mention Abu, Aladdin's trusty monkey which is always there when he needs assistance. It's also very charismatic and even cute, sending plenty of emotion towards the viewer.In terms of entertainment, the movie has plenty to offer. You get many action sequences in which Aladdin proves his abilities, you get a lot of musical moments which are always welcome and you even get plenty of jokes, especially with the genie around. The visual part is also a big plus, looking very good even today, judging by the fact that it has over twenty years and counting.To sum things up, it's a classic story which almost every kid knows, which brings plenty of good time with everything it does, even after seeing it multiple times, but if you ask me, it could have done a bit more in terms of story. Nevertheless, it's a very good animation which made a great impact when it first came so its merits will always be appreciated.
My Rating : 8/10The movie that started my love for movies!The prince of thieves, his monkey, his carpet and his genie try to regain the love of Princess Jasmine and fight off the evil Jafar who is the second most badass villain (Scar from Lion King is #1) in the Disneyverse. This is my favourite Robin Williams role considering I hated him as an actor and most of his acting roles were just crap, but as a voice actor I liked him.Also, I think I speak for every male from my generation when I say that Jasmine was our first crush. She was exotic, rich and a princess! What wasn't to love?
Aladdin is a fantastic film. Sure, some of the jokes are dated now (some of them were dated back then), but over 20 years later, this movie still holds up quite well. It's a fun story with entertaining characters and an incredible soundtrack. This easily makes the top ten list of my favorite Disney movies of all time.
Aladdin was part of the beginning of the Disney Renaissance era that began in 1989 with The Little Mermaid and ended in 1998 with Mulan. Aladdin has music, adventure and magic (with the Genies help!). The film also has a great voice cast, including Robin Williams as Genie and Scott Weinger as Aladdin.Aladdin was a great film for Robin Williams, as he was able to do his impressions, as well as visually entertaining for kids. Much like Merlin from The Sword in the Stone, Genie can do a lot of magic, but he's more friendly. Other than his friend, the Genie, Aladdin has a pet monkey, Abu and a magic carpet that he finds with the Genie.It's a great love story as well, with the princess, Jasmine. Throw in an evil vizier named Jafar and you have drama. Fun for all ages, however, kids might have questions; so parents should watch with the younger ones.
Perfect cast, perfect pasing, one of the best disney princesses and just amazing.
Aladdin is a movie that I think every kid has seen. Beautifully written, and visually stunning, Aladdin gives some of the best voice overs in cinema history. This is near a damn perfect movie and it's one of my favorite Disney films ever. 8/10
No question Robin Williams delivers in a trademark role here as the wise cracking, ad-libbing Blue Genie, but I also got a kick out of Gilbert Gottfried's voice work for Iago the Parrot. And that's saying something, because otherwise, in a take it or leave it situation with Gottfried, I'd always leave it. The story is classic Disney, colorful and song filled, with an interesting balance of villains and heroes. The back and forth with the magic lamp gets a little played out after a while, but I thought the ending had an ironic twist with Sorceror Jafar (Jonathan Freeman) wishing to be the most powerful genie in the world. In effect, he got double whammied by the law of unintended consequences and a severe lesson in 'be careful what you wish for'.
This is among the best animated movies Disney has put out! The animation is superb as always. Aladdin makes for a great hero, upbeat but with a lot of problems to overcome, even with the help of a genie! The Genie himself is a total hoot and steals the show, changing his form to imaginative things and cracking jokes like he is in a Marx bros movie! Jafar is a great villain, insidious and also a powerful threat physically thanks to his magic! The rest of the cast is also great, everyone is contributing something to the story or providing laughs! A true animated classic!
This is the fourth animated classic Disney film I watched this month. I am currently tackling the Aladdin trilogy. And maybe even the Lion King trilogy if I am not too burnt out on classic Disney animation by then. Anyway, this is one of the mega hits from the 90s, the silver age of Disney animation.. if you ignore the 60's-80's filler films the studio pumped out. Anyway, the late Robin Williams steals the show and really puts this film over the top with his performance as the big blue lovable clown. Good stuff.
This is a great movie with enjoyable animation and an interesting story. I would recommend watching this movie. It succeeds in most ways.
I'd heard about this film after seeing Beauty and the Beast, and this, along with that aforementioned film, are my runners-up for my favorite Disney films. The top winners (in my opinion) are Mulan, The Lion King, and Atlantis: The Lost Empire. Not only do we get Robin Williams (in one of his best roles along with Mrs. Doubtfire), Gilbert Gottfried (this movie was the first time I'd heard of him), Scott Weinger (Candace Cameron's TV boyfriend from Full House); we also get voice veterans Jim Cummings (of the many 1990s cartoons) and Frank Welker (G1 Megatron).I did not pay much attention to the Middle East before this film and even though there is some misinformation involved, it's still a somewhat accurate portrayal of the old days in that part of the world. The original Aladdin story took place in Western China (which I later learned has a large Muslim population) but that didn't hinder my enjoyment of the film. But hey, if you want a dose of the 1990s era of Disney this is one of the best. Take a good, long look.
Aladdin is the story of a poor thief (or Street Rat) he's struggling to make ends meet, but he dreams of the beautiful Princess Jasmine.
The villainous Jafar aims to force Jasmine into marriage so he can rule over Agrabah, however Aladdin discovers a Genie who can grant him wishes, together they aim to stop Jafar.Starting in '89 with The Little Mermaid Disney was making classic after classic.
Aladdin was definitely one of their best. It was definitely there funniest.
There are several comedic characters, such as Iago, Abu, Magic Carpet and the Sultan.
But none are anywhere near as funny as Genie.On top of being funny Aladdin also boasts a great soundtrack. Almost every song in this film is great!While I do feel like it was predictable, telling a story we're al very familiar with. It tells it in such a funny and bright way that's easily overlooked.Aladdin deserves it's spot on the Walt Disney Animated Studios canon!
Two thumbs up!
Aladdin is about a young Middle Eastern homeless guy living on the dusty streets of Agrabah. Aladdin, the main character, owns a monkey named Abu. Early in the movie, he, by chance, ends up meeting the princess, Jasmine, who is in disguise because she wants to get out of the palace where she lives and experience life on the outside in the real world. She doesn't like it in the palace because it is confining and she is not able to make her own choices. For example, she must find a husband by her next birthday per the local law. While they are hanging out, Aladdin is arrested for stealing bread from earlier. He is taken to the dungeon. Her pleas to let him go fall on empty ears because the palace guards are under the orders of Jafar, an evil sorcerer who works for the King, Jasmine's father. They do not disclose to him or to her whether they are there specifically to arrest him. Later, while Aladdin is in shackles, Jafar sneaks into his cell disguised as an old peasant donning a gold tooth and hobbling around on a wooden cane that looks like a giant corkscrew. In exchange for Aladdin's assistance in finding treasure, this magic lamp, Jafar says that he will help Aladdin escape. He begrudgingly agrees. What else is he supposed to do?! Aladdin goes with the disguised Jafar to Cave of Wonders where, inside, he finds the lamp. Find out what Aladdin does with his 3 wishes and how he tries to win over the princess's heart.
Available on Blu-ray Disc (Region B)USA 1992 English (Colour); Animation/Family/Adventure/Comedy/Musical/Romance/Fantasy (Walt Disney); 91 minutes (U certificate)Crew includes: John Musker, Ron Clements (Directors/Producers); Ron Clements, John Musker, Ted Elliott, Terry Rossio (Screenwriters); R.S. Vander Wende (Production Designer); H. Lee Paterson (Editor); Alan Menken (Composer)Voices include: Scott Weinger (Aladdin), Robin Williams (Genie), Linda Larkin (Princess Jasmine), Jonathan Freeman (Jafar), Frank Welker (Abu), Gilbert Gottfried (Iago), Douglas Seale (Sultan)Academy Awards (2): Original Score, Original Song ('A Whole New World'); Academy Award nominations (3): Original Song ('Friend Like Me'), Sound, Sound Effects Editing; BAFTA nominations (1993) (2): Film Music, Visual Effects; Golden Globe Awards (2): Original Score, Original Song ('A Whole New World'); Golden Globe nominations (3): Picture - Musical/Comedy, Original Song ('Friend Like Me'), Original Song ('Prince Ali')'Imagine if you had three wishes, three hopes, three dreams, and they all could come true.'A restless street urchin (Weinger) encounters a dissatisfied princess in disguise (Larkin), and granted three wishes by a wisecracking, shapeshifting genie (Williams), sets out to win her hand in marriage, while simultaneously defeating a nefarious court advisor (Freeman), who wants the kingdom for himself.A double major award winner for Original Score and Song ('A Whole New World' composed by Menken with new collaborator Tim Rice), although the musical highlight is arguably the witty and majestic 'Prince Ali' (one of lyricist Howard Ashman's last contributions to a Disney film).Williams' magnificent voice performance was also recognised with a Special Achievement Award at the Golden Globes for his improvised vocal work.Blu-ray Extras: Commentary, Documentary, Deleted Scenes, Music Videos. ***½ (7/10)
I like this movie a lot, because it does something for a Disney animated classic, which still holds up: The comedy! Well, I have listed the great stuff in the headline, but let me just for a moment say about the comedic aspect of this movie. Casting Robin Williams as the Genie was brilliant. In many of the other classics fro Disney I have grown a little out of the comic sidekicks, but not the Genie! Moving on to the other stuff. Jafar is also a great villain with just the right amount of slimy arrogance to his voice and also a devilish sidekick of Gilbert Gottfried! Brilliant! The only issue I have is the Arabian and setting and Aladdin's dialog. He is a likable character, but once in a while his cool guy attitude is a little distracting, but it does not ruin the movie. You know the songs, they are just memorable and catchy. No more, no less. The visuals are also pretty amazing. Watch it, you won't be disappointed.
I just don't get why people love this movie, it was terrible. The story was terrible, the characters weren't likable none of them, and it doesn't do any good messages at all. It doesn't have good messaging, doesn't have good characters, it was just bad. But however, the music isn't horrible, I just don't like them as much, and most of the songs I didn't even care about. This film is just a piece of garbage, and I don't get why everybody loves it. It's just a dumb movie. There was not one thing that I liked about this movie. I didn't like the characters, I didn't like the story, I didn't like the songs, the animation, the jokes, no one was likable in the movie, the main character tries to be someone else instead of being himself, which made the movie unwatchable for me, and at the end, it's suppose to be a happy ending Yay! No! This movie's horrible. I don't understand why it is considered to be one of the best Disney movies ever made, it is just really bad. I've never seen a Disney movie so bad as Aladdin next to The Nightmare Before Christmas & Oliver & Company. Stay Away! It's overrated. The musics bad, the animations bad, the characters are bad, the plot is bad, there's nothing to like about Aladdin. And it's just way overrated for it's own good.
Aladdin is a thoroughly entertaining film, with the theme of being 'trapped' resonant across all demographics. This is probably the funniest Disney film of the '90s, with a large part of that owing to Robin Williams' ostentatious genie. The incessant references might date the film a little--in fact, I believe Aladdin may be the first children's animation showcasing the trend of gratuitous pop culture references for the sake of a knowing laugh--But I digress, for the movie does manage to find comedy in other places too. Jafar, for example, is probably the perfect Disney villain: sarcastic, maleficent, and creepy as all hell. He inspires most of the action scenes, which are exhilarating and suspenseful mostly because they have a sense of real urgency; Aladdin doesn't just slip out without having a few (or 10) close calls. Many people have complained about Jasmine and Aladdin being bland stock characters, but I don't see that, especially for Jasmine. She was probably the most autonomous Disney princess at the time, and she has grace and charm without being simpering and dependent. All of the characters here are entertaining; even the notoriously grating Gilbert Gottfried as Iago garners quite a few laughs. The two leads have a palpable chemistry, and are given a classic ballad to develop their relationship ('A Whole New World' is the best song here), but given Jasmine's obstinacy, could have been given a little bit more time to grow realistically, in my opinion. The short duration of the wooing doesn't impede our ability to see the characters having a happily ever after, though. The ending is saccharine, with the villain getting an ingenious comeuppance and everyone getting their dream's fulfillment, including the Genie, in a surprising show of compassion for a movie that largely focuses on making one's own dreams come true.The music is also witty and exciting, but isn't as eloquent or stirring as Beauty and the Beast's soundtrack. However, Aladdin's engaging action, characters, and story more than make up for this. Aladdin is a classic tale that'll make you laugh and gasp (it's too sweet of a film to elicit a full on cry), and it definitely deserves a place in the Disney hall of fame (or your movie collection).
Excellent Animation, Fantastic songs, and score, incredible story! One of Disney's best! Robin Williams is a high light, all the voices are right on, and the story is great! But why does no one seem to mention this was based on and inspired by a 1940 Live Action Technicolor Blockbuster called 'The Thief of Bagdad?' If they'd given credit where credit it due, one wouldn't be left with the nagging feeling that this masterpiece is somehow a bit of a rip-off.
Overall: This movie is one of the best Disney movies and contains one of the greatest comedic performances every put to screen.Good:1. Robin Williams is genius in this movie and is one of the greatest comedic performances in any movie ever.2. The movie is hysterically funny, mainly because of the Genie.3. Abu, the Magic Carpet and the Sultan are side characters who are interesting and funny.4. Jaffar is a pretty decent villain even if he turns to some clichés5. The animation is great with a nice upbeat colour palette6. Solid voice acting7. Great music.Bad:1. Aladdin and Jasmine are boring and run of the mill Disney characters. They have no funny lines.2. Jaffar becomes a more clichéd villain towards the end and loses all credibility3. Robin Williams is by far the greatest part of this movie. Without him this movie would easily be a 3 or 4 /10. He makes the movie and it only stands on two feet because of him.8/10
I enjoyed this movie much as a child and loved it even more as an adult. It has many, many great lessons for those looking for the answers to life. The best lesson was that lying and not remaining true to yourself is a mistake that will be overcome by true love. The movie was one of the best Disney movies and the animation revealed much about the state of the characters, like how truthful Aladdin was being, how evil Jafar was, how innocent Jasmine is, and how Iago was mean.GENIE!!! Is the favorite part! We love Genie and all his magic! He is the embodiment of truth in the movie and shows how God will intervene, even when hope is lost by giving truths to the Hero in ways that seem impossible. This is true fact.I give the movie 10/10 for Awesome Perfect Truth Revealing.
Aladdin is a poor yet care-free street urchin in an Arabian city. One day he meets Princess Jasmine, the daughter of the Sultan of the land, and falls madly in love. However, the evil Jafar, the Sultan's sorcerer, imprisons Aladdin and manipulates him into working for him. Unknown to Aladdin, he is the only one who can enter and unlock the treasures of a secret cave, including a magical lamp. Aladdin finds the lamp and releases the genie trapped within. The genie offers to grant him three wishes. Meanwhile, Jafar wants the lamp and the Princess has to be married within three days. Many adventures follow...Reasonably entertaining. Mostly for kids - the plot is pretty linear, fairy tale stuff and the adventures are often quite juvenile - but it is never boring. Quite funny at times and has enough substance to keep adults interested too.Some catchy songs too, just to make it memorable.Robin Williams steals the show as voice of the genie. The role are dialogue are perfect for him, so much so that I suspect he wrote, or even ad-libbed, some of the funnier lines. Not a classic, but worth watching nevertheless.
This is part of the Disney winning streak of wonderful animated films. It is the familiar story of the young boy who finds a magic lamp that allows him to converse with a genie. What an amazing choice for the genie as Robin Williams struts his stuff. The genie is the star of this show, but a good villain is also thrown in there. As they battle Jaffar, Aladdin is forced to use all his resources to become what he was intended to be. He must somehow become worthy to marry the princess. He is seen as a poser because of his humble upbringing. He woos her with the song 'A Whole New World,' which is an apt title for what he has to offer. The best animated features have an edge to them, and this is no exception. The animation is fabulous and the story is well conceived.
'Aladdin' was released in 1992, at the height of Disney's cinematic era. Disney had just made the two greats 'The Little Mermaid' and 'Beauty and the Beast.' Because of this, it might have been hard for Disney to create a film better than their previous ones, but 'Aladdin' is so well-made with such great performances, namely Robin Williams as the genie, that it can be compared to such classic Disney animated features like 'Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.' 'Aladdin' did not start Disney's 'Golden Age', but it did have a lasting impact on animated films still to this day.Aladdin is a 'street-rat', or so the movie calls him, that one day falls in love with the princess Jasmine. As with the classic Disney formula of the '90s, he can't marry her because he is not a prince. It seems unoriginal now, but back then it was one of the first times a movie had done that. Jafar is the assistant to the King, and he is a generic secretly evil Disney villain. The movie is interesting enough, until you get to the genie. Once you get the Robin William's genie, the movie explodes into a joyride that you can't take your eyes off. Robin Williams gives one of the best performances of his career as the voice of the genie. Take the genie out of the movie, and it is just another Disney film with a generic plot following the same formula. The genie shows how big a supporting character can be. Although he is only a supporting character, the genie turns 'Aladdin' from a good movie to a Disney classic. Robin Williams took the genie and made that role his. No one else could have done what Robin Williams did with that character. I hear he ad-libbed so much of his lines that they couldn't even submit the script to the Academy for Best Adapted Screenplay. This goes to show how brilliant of an actor Robin Williams was. The ending is a good one for a movie like this, it is very clever and appealing.I'm sorry for the short review, but Aladdin is a short movie while still being one of the best Disney animated features of all time. The villain is a bit dull, but the characters are interesting. The genie is by far the highlight of the movie, and the film is worth watching just for Robin William's performance as the genie.
This film tells the story of Aladdin, a vagabond who will use the Genie powers to win the heart of Jasmine, the daughter of the Sultan. Directed by Ron Clements and John Musker, who also ensure the script, it has voice actors as Scott Weinger, Robin Williams and Linda Larkin. With a soundtrack written by Alan Menken, it won two Oscars, for Best Original Song and Best Original Score.This film, visibly inspired by 'Arabian Nights' and the Islamic ambiance, is one of the best Disney movies before they started opting for computerization. The script is excellent and is based on the classic impossible love of rich girl with the poor guy. Romantic and original, this film was, for many children, the first contact with a love story. It conveys an important moral maxim: love can overcome all barriers and bring people together.The characters are deeply interesting: Aladdin is the typical vagabond of humble origin, who knows survive on the streets but has a good heart. Jasmine is a stubborn princess, full of personality. Jafar, the villain, is the Sultan's minister and only thinks of taking power by the easiest possible way. Genie, the genie of the lamp, is a magical character who can do almost anything. Destined to spend eternity serving those who find him, only grants three wishes and is the largest comic element of the film.The work of designers is excellent, at the level of the best that Disney has ever done. Colorful, with soft but realistic lines, its visually appealing and pleasant. The voice actors did a great job but Robin Williams, who voiced the Genie, deserves a special positive highlight. The soundtrack fulfills her role with great brilliance and stands out over almost the entire film, with musical moments of great quality. One, perhaps the most famous, is 'Arabian Nights', which comes early in the film. But the most acclaimed by the critic is the song 'A Whole New World', sung by Aladdin and Jasmine, hoping to discover together the world around them.
This is one of the films that I have liked since I was a child. Recently, I watched the play 'Aladdin' by Shiki Theatre Company. I like it so much. Aladdin is a poor but honest man. Jasmine is the princess of the country. There is the difference of rank between them, but Aladdin gets the magic lamp and his life changes. With Genie's help, he tries to be a man meets Princess Jasmine. It looks just like a story of love and magic, but I think the backgrounds that the main characters have are remarkable points. Aladdin, Jasmine and Genie are very different, but they have one thing in common. It is the desire for freedom. Aladdin wants to stop his poor life. Jasmine is tired of the castle life and hopes to see the wide world. Genie wants to be free and not to be follow his master anymore. They have the impossible desire, but I think this common point is the key of the story that makes them close and makes their impossible possible.
My grandparents have had, for a very long time, the Classics VHS release on hand at their house alongside Snow White, The Jungle Book, and The Fox and the Hound, and when I was a toddler, I remember seeing each of them and having the most memories of watching Aladdin. Even today, I still laugh at the jokes (some of them are a little puerile, but they don't rely excessively on them, unlike The Emperor's New Groove, and plenty of them actually triggered me to chuckle), immerse myself in the songs and beautiful animation, and with all of that, I know I will eventually see it again. My one complaint would have to be that while the songs are among the best you will find in a 1992 movie, you may have to watch the film or clips of it constantly in order to make the songs memorable, because even though I last watched this before I even considered becoming an IMDb reviewer, I still couldn't remember some of the lyrics to top-notch songs like A Whole New World. That doesn't change the fact, though, that this movie is a must-watch for anyone who appreciates Disney, musicals, early 1990's films, or films set in the Middle East (I heard that Persia is the specific setting for this film, but I am not an analyst in that regard. I analyze like any typical IMDb critic.)
I really couldn't understand why I never seen this movie properly before until tonight!, I mean, I honestly did grew up with the other well-known Disney ones like Cinderalla, The Little Mermaid, Mulan, Sleeping Beauty, Pochantas, etc but never Aladdin. I just didn't get around it at the time!Ah man,it's so depressing to think Robin Williams is not here with us now, it really made me sad by hearing his voice as the Genie. I loved how he impersonates celebrities including Jack Nicholson, Rodney Dangerfield, Carol Channing, and among the rest. He was such a brilliant actor and always be hailed as one of my childhood heroes out there!The artwork is beautiful, especially seeing the Castle at night, it looks so realistic! I loved Jasmine and Aladdin's relationship, they totally deserved each other right from the star! They are such an adorable couple like any other Disney couple out there in the world of Disney! The way they cuddled together and when they finally kissed, it made your heart pumping like mad! Wouldn't that be lovely if we all got that chance with love?! Why on earth did they give this sequels?! It would've been great if they left this alone! God, Hollywood is pure daft in ruining originals! Like all films, I'm sticking to this one, fair in square! Anyways, I can't wait to show this to my kids if I have any in the future. They would be totally happy to have seen this, it's enjoyable and magnificent!
Not the worst Disney movie, but pretty close. Lacks any real emotional depth, and just replaces it with Robin Williams slapstick. A Whole New World is one of the Disney songs, but a generic even for Disney plot and clear racism counteract that. This movie doesn't have any depth, just some white Indians defeating the evil, dark Indians. Some might commend this movie for being the first one with out an extremely pale Disney princess, but making her skin slightly darker doesn't change the fact that she's an even more out of touch brat. Some people might not like reviewing children's movies, but when a movie is so widely loved like Aladdin, I say it's fair game. Children are gonna like the movie no matter how bad it is, so why not review it for the 13+ demographic?
I have to admit though not scrupulous this is none the less an enjoyable film for children that is fun, exotic and entertaining but being Disney uses a classic story to also teach American values in a clichéd format. Being a children's film the characters are well developed and the story line is simple relying on comical humour that children will like and is recommended for the Primary school age group and is a good Disney film. However despite being a Disney epic I would not say it is a classic film or one for family entertainment as I have seen other Aladdin films that would be better for a more mature and broader audience such as the elegant Japanese version made in the early 1980 as it keeps the story authentic and historical which is important from a cultural and educational standpoint. Despite this the Disney version could of been marketed more as an Eastern Adventure rather then one based on a particular story. The characters in the Disney version represent Iranian Americans epitomised in the fictional setting of Agrabah and does the story in a superficial manner some examples being Aladdin in the original is not a destitute underdog but a shrewd rogue, the princess is called Badral but Jasmine sounds more American, The story is not set in Iran but in Xinjiang Province now in Western China, Jafar is two characters rolled in to one the haughty vizier and the chief antagonist who is a West African magician.
Jafar, Grand Vizier to the Sultan sends a con into the Cave of Wonders to retrieve the magic lamp. The guard demands a Diamond in the Rough and devours the man. Princess Jasmine is tired of palace life and the Sultan's constant attempt to find her a husband. She sneaks out into the market where good-natured thief Aladdin with his monkey Abu saves her from getting her hand chopped off. Jafar orders Aladdin's capture and then helps him escape to steal the lamp. Aladdin manages to survive and release the Genie (Robin Williams). He promises to grant Genie his freedom with his third wish.Robin Williams is utterly brilliant. His personality is so big that he outshines almost everybody except the villain. Jafar is a terrific villain in the vein of traditional Disney. Aladdin and Jasmine suffer from being overshadowed by the side characters. There are a couple of nice catchy tunes. This is generally a good animated movie with an outstanding voice performance.
The film opens with a merchant's tell-tale song, performed by the classic Robin Williams. It begins the (inaccurate, but good) story of a boy named Aladdin, who has the power to open the Cave of Wonders, a place that holds magic and wealth. We don't meet Aladdin yet, as it first introduces us to the villain of the story, the well-written 'Jafar'. Jafar is cunning and witty. He is a classic villain, with a terrifying look and an evil laugh. We are shown Jafar and another man trying to open the Cave of Wonders. Since the other man is not Aladdin, he cannot go into the cave and come out unharmed. Jafar grows angry after learning this fate, and hatches a plan to find Aladdin.Now, we center on a scraggly boy in a marketplace, stealing bread. There's the beautiful singing of Scott Weinger that immediately grabs your heart. Guards are trying to catch Aladdin for stealing. Through this song, you realize the boy is a poor orphan unable to afford food. He owns a pet monkey named Abu, who has an attitude of his own. Aladdin escapes the guards with an allusion to a magic carpet as his escape method, and lands in an alley, while the guards land in manure.Now, one may think Aladdin deserves to be caught for stealing. It's at this moment that Aladdin notices two starving children and gives his own bread to them. Abu does the same, with a little persuasion. I won't give everything away, but what I will say is that this film is something I hold very dear to my heart. Throughout the past 20+ years, it has touched the hearts of many. It's got a great musical score, amazing character development, great voice actresses and actors (including Robin Williams!), and a story that you can't forget. This movie truly is magical.
Disney has so many classics, Cinderella, Beauty and the Beast, but one of the greatest is Aladdin with flying carpets, magical Genies, giant talking sand monsters. Aladdin is beloved by me along with millions of others and it will be loved by many more with this new Diamond DVD. Aladdin has so many jokes that it makes you laugh, but also has quite a few dramatic scenes that keep you on the edge of your seat with relationships sprouting into wonderful romance. And, it is all wrapped together in one fantastic adventure.The story begins when a Middle Eastern princess decides she had enough of being stuck in her palace and goes out into the city for once in her life. She goes to the market and gets in a little bit of trouble, thanks to a poor young man named Aladdin. Sadly, he is accused of kidnapping the princess. Now in jail, he and another man manage to escape to go find a massive treasure and most importantly - a Genie bottle. The Genie (our favorite Robin Williams) comes out and grants Aladdin three wishes - now Aladdin can decide what he wants to do.Aladdin is such a fantastic and entertaining film. The animation is just mind blowing. How good it is, considering that it was made over 20 years ago, how full of emotion the voice actors ate, it is quite different than many other famous Disney animations. With such a famous cast, it is truly a masterpiece. And, quite nostalgic to hear Robin Williams' so recognizable voice as this is one of his most iconic roles. It really shows how he entertained the world with laughter for so many years. The soundtrack in Aladdin is incredible. Each song is catchy and kind of gets stuck in your head (I will show you the woooorld!) and so many of them are now classic songs that people of different generations sing.This special Diamond edition of Aladdin comes with quite a few bonus features. In one of my favorites, conversations with the casts, I found out a lot of interesting facts such as Scott Weinger, the voice of Aladdin, actually didn't know how to sing when he auditioned for it at the age of 15! There are also several deleted scenes, showing how different they originally planned the film and even a deleted song that was done by Jafar, (Jonathon Freeman)!My favorite scene is when Aladdin releases Genie for the first time and he quickly gets out of his small bottle (he is rather big). I love his first line, '10,000 years will give you such a crick in the neck!' I love this scene because instead of ranting about something, he just does his first line as a pretty funny joke, which forever brought this lovable special character into our lives.Aladdin has something similar to the other Disney animated films in that they are meant for the whole family. So, I recommend it for ages 7 to 18. I wouldn't show it to kids younger than seven because there are a few dramatic scenes that might be frightening for then. It isn't exactly bright and fun throughout the whole film. I give it five out of five stars because this is truly a classic and I love every aspect of it, especially our wonderful Genie who we miss every day.Reviewed by Gerry O. KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
even though Aladdin is funny but not impressive as Hercules. Hercules make me understand what is called being a hero. but this movie Aladdin needs upgrade because I am not impressed and satisfied with the movie why even Aladdin is for adventure not for education as Hercules and Lion king. however it didn't match to lion king. the movie is not amazing because they did not try so hard as lion king. Lion king is best because not so much disappointing as Hercules. However I expect more from Aladdin. P.S this movie shows some graphic images like trying to cut of some one's arm and this movie needs lot of upgrade it's too unsatisfying because it didn't match to lion king and Hercules. if I see the movie I would be less uncomfortable but not so bad as Sailor moon. one thing I like about this movie was genie who is hilarious but Aladdin is not that powerful or smart as Simba who kicked Scar. I expect more from Aladdin.
Aladdin has a long and illustrious legacy. It was a massive hit upon its release, garnering critical acclaim and box office successes one after another. It's still considered to be one of the finest animated films ever made, probably even the best Disney film of all time if not for the film that came directly after it, The Lion King, and it also carries the dubious honour of being the unofficial first Dreamworks film. At least in spirit. Because really, think about it. The jokey mood, the pop culture references, the scope and size of the songs. Aladdin even has that abominable Dreamworks lead character smirk on his face.Not that any of this lessens the quality of the film in any way. This is a magnificent, huge film, one of my ultimate favourites. I love it, I absolutely love it. Everything in it. Aladdin, Jasmine, the fact that they're the best Disney couple by a comfortable margin. They just click instantly and the bazaar scene with the apple is probably one of the finest in the whole film, and that's saying something. And the rest of them as well. Genie, the carpet, Jafar, the whole crew. I also really love that back then they could make movies such as these. Could you imagine them doing a movie like this, with an all-Arabic cast and setting, nowadays? It'd be a horror show.The story is also probably the finest adventure story I've ever seen in an animated film, in any film really. It establishes its premise and basic story effortlessly, is immensely enjoyable and easy to follow, yet contains massive depth through its hinted backstory and its characters. A film you can watch over and over, and still enjoy it just as much as you did the first time. And you know we did watch it, over and over again, as children. And yet it's just as good now, when I rewatched it as an adult. Better even, because you finally get why Aladdin and Jasmine click so well, why Aladdin's final ploy against Jafar was the only one possible and oh so very clever, and why the Genie is such a good, tragic character.You all know this movie. You've all probably seen it multiple times already. But, if you haven't watched it recently, if the last time you saw it was as a child, do rewatch it if you get the chance. You'll be surprised at what you're going to discover within.
With Beauty and the Beast receiving a best picture Oscar nomination, Disney's appeal was at a high and they were eager to build on their acclaim. Aladdin was the perfect film for this and took a very different approach for the studio, but they didn't forget what had made the previous few films so successful. It took an old-fashioned, solidly set-up story and gave it a much more modern feel with broader humour. You'd think that this would clash, yet it works brilliantly and gives the film a unique edge. It's a fine balancing act and I'm not sure many other Disney films could have carried it off, but this is one where nearly everything tried works no matter how madcap it may be. The film focuses on street urchin Aladdin and the princess Jasmine, both being fed-up with their lives and wishing for something else. After a chance meeting with the princess, Aladdin is roped into finding a lamp for sorcerer Jafar only to keep it and unleash a Genie that gives him three wishes which he uses to try to win over Jasmine. At its core it's a story about two people wanting different things and connecting because of that, just with a lot of comedy and many obstacles put in their way. It's nothing complicated, yet it's a storyline that people can easily get behind and they want to see the arc that both people go through. The romance takes up most of it, but enough time is given to develop Jafar and even the Genie's own dilemma.Aladdin and Jasmine aren't the most interesting characters, but they are very likable and as a result always keep your interest. Aladdin is street smart and Jasmine is adventurous, but both are very warm and easy to like individuals. The Genie is what most people remember and he kind of is the star here. Most of that is down to Robin Williams, whose witty improvisations and mile-a-minute comedic stylings are just brilliant here. Genie is just such a fun character as a result, with a numerous jokes of all kinds and he makes pop culture references that are genuinely funny. The Sultan is enjoyably absent-minded, while the characters that don't talk like Aladdin's monkey Abu and the Magic Carpet do provide some funny moments.Another positive is the villain and Jafar is just fantastic. His menacing design looks great, he manages the difficult task of being sinister whilst also having subtle comedic moments and Jonathan Freeman's eloquently dark voice works to perfection. Not only that but his motivations make sense and his grudge towards Aladdin is set-up excellently. Gilbert Gottfried as his Parrott Iago also offers some good laughs. The animation is truly outstanding. I picture a lot of beautiful reds and golds when I think of this film, it is always very visually appealing and the landscape designs just look lovely. The animation on the Genie is very impressive just by how fast it is and a lot of the movements here flow well despite the rapid speed most of it goes at. It also lends itself to some very effective tense moments, I think the climax in general is superb.The music is very good. All the songs here have very catchy melodies and are memorable, from the serene 'A Whole New World' to the energetic 'Friend Like Me'. None of them get in the way of story and the work well with the animation. The romance impressed me as well because there was a believable bond between Aladdin and Jasmine, they do have chemistry and you do get drawn into their struggle. There are some clichés hanging over some areas, but I don't think they affect things too much. As said the comedy is very modern and filled with pop culture references. Some people might fine this distracting, but like I said I think it gives a different twist on the formula.On the whole I'm a big fan of Aladdin. The ways and means by which they tell this story are very out of the box, but I think that is a big part of its appeal. This is a fresh take on a story that could have been quite dull and as a result is does place it aside as something very different for the studio. As said I really liked the main characters, I thought Jafar was an excellent villain and Robin Williams is simply a whirlwind of comedy. The animation is as impressive as ever and I don't think there is a song here that isn't at least good. I'd have to say that this is easily one of Disney's most entertaining pieces.
I went to Orlando in 1991 and I saw lots of drawing etc for this film. At this time I was 11 and not really into Disney films and thought it looked a bit crap. Many years later I watched this and was surprised at how good it was. Most Disney films have a standard format and let's be from, get a little silly, annoying and cheesy. Now while this has all of that the characters are excellent, the songs are brilliant and the whole film really is enjoyable. I would say this is probably my favourite Disney film and that's saying something. It's also funny and smart which I like. It might not make as much money as Frozen but I can tell you pound for pound it wipes the floor with modern Disney films.
Aladdin was one of the best animated films of all time! Or at least, that is the opinion of this very entertained film critic. Disney has lead me it often misses the mark when trying to properly adapt fairy tales. I along with many other critics, have been their biggest faultfinders. However, Aladdin is clever, funny, has amazing themes, a beautiful soundtrack, and is a very satisfying movie.The film is set in place resembling the Middle East. Aladdin is a young boy who lives in the streets. Princess Jasmine (his future love interest), lives in the castle and is heavily restricted by her father. Princess Jasmine leaves the castle one day and meets Aladdin. The two have an immediate bond! As the story develops, they fall in love. The evil secretary Jafar, tricks Aladdin into going to retrieve a magical lamp for him. Aladdin rubs the lamp and sparks a friendship with the genie (Robin Williams). Because princesses are only allowed to marry princes, his first wish is to become a prince. The two begin to fall in love. Jafar steals the lamp and becomes very powerful. Aladdin tricks him in to becoming a genie and he is sucked into a lamp. Seeing that Jasmine and Aladdin are in love, the king changes the law and allows them to get married. The storytelling and pacing in the movie is amazing. This movie is an adaptation of the Arabian Nights story. There have been many fairy tale adaptations such as Frozen, Tangled, and The Princess and the Frog. Because of when Aladdin was made, the only thing it lacks are the high definition qualities. However, the complex story leads away from lack of production!Moreover, the movie took some very interesting risks that turned out amazing. Normally for Disney movies, the protagonist is obviously good guy. He does everything right, and is a model citizen. This is not the case for Aladdin, who if you pay attention, is actually a criminal. He is a common thief, but despite this, Disney is able to make us root for him. He is a very relatable character and uses his wishes to help him find love. The movie also does an amazing job portraying Jasmine. Instead of making her a ditsy princess and a very minor character, they dig deeper. She isn't just Aladdin's to be won, she falls in love with him too. In the movie, she recognizes him immediately as the boy she met in the streets. It is revealed that she loves Aladdin for who he is and does not care if he is a prince or a petty thief. We also get a very developed character in Genie, who provides the comic relief in the movie. The film is never able to hit a dry spot because he constantly makes us laugh. The decision to get Robin Williams to voice the genie was a smart one, as his charm seeps through the character.The underlying theme from the movie seems to be to just be yourself. Instead of going the easy route and having Aladdin become a prince, Disney decided to have him stay the same. Children needed to see that being themselves was always the right answer.As if the characters and story weren't enough, Aladdin had an astounding soundtrack. As of today, I still find myself singing 'A Whole New world'. This song was truly incredible and won a Grammy for Song of The Year. This is universally seen as one of the best movie soundtracks of all time.Overall, Aladdin was an amazing movie and one of Disney's best in my opinion. If you have not seen it, I would greatly recommend it! You will find yourself thinking about it weeks later and be happy you did!
I was 13 when this film was released, new into high school, trying hard not to like cartoons and animation. But Aladdin just grabbed hold of me and stayed with me to this day.I think we watched it as a family as a treat for my younger brother, Robin Williams was just fantastic. He was so funny in this film his performance sticks in my mind. My Favourite Song was by far 'A Whole New World' on that magic carpet ride (common who didn't dream of being that when your stuck in a boring maths class), Peabo Bryson and Regina Belle a lovely beautiful ballad I was singing long after!Don't ever say your too old for this movie!
This movie is as fun as a movie can be. It was hard to believe, coming after Beauty and the Beast, that Disney would slam it home again, but I still remember the feeling of satisfaction of seeing this in the theater. Animated movies, which had been such a big part of my childhood, were officially great again. And the movie holds up. It's another one that finds a way to get your interest early and maintain the excitement right on through. None of the songs are personal favorites, although the short reprise of 'Prince Ali' is deliciously demented. The animation is beyond world-class, obviously the product of an insane level of work. But the movie also continues to influence family films, for better or worse. Just like Jaws and Raiders of the Lost Ark ushered in the age of the quick-cut short attention span blockbuster, Genie and Iago made sure every animated kids production had to have sarcastic, wisecracking characters spouting off insults that usually went over young viewers heads'. Movies like Pulp Fiction, Forest Gump, and Aladdin brought in the age of irony, and pop culture has pretty much resided there ever since.
I cannot make it any plainer than this: Aladdin is not just a great film, it is one of the top 5 Disney films EVER. Most everyone knows the story: Aladdin, who is a peasant meets and falls in love with Princess Jasmine, who by law can only marry a royal. Jafar, the evil sorceror, uses Aladdin's trusting nature against him to try and steal the magic lamp hidden in the cave, but it doesn't work. Aladdin brings forth the genie and uses the wishes to make him a prince. However, the Genie cannot make Jasmine love him.Jafar eventually gains control of the lamp and exposes Aladdin as a peasant and it looks like he is going to win and crush everyone. However, his greed destroys him at the last second and Jasmine proclaims her love for Aladdin and chooses him as her husband-to-be.While that alone would make a great movie, the surrounding characters and nuances are what make it so fantastic. The animation is stunning, made even more so by the fact that it is before current CGI-technology. Second, the supporting characters of Abu, Raja and Iago are hilarious. And, third, the song 'Whole New World' is simply perfect, one of Disney's crowning greats (both the movie and soundtrack versions are great!) In the end, Aladdin is quite simply the perfect movie, animated or otherwise. It can make adults and kids alike feel joy and happiness and that's what a movie is meant to do. This is a film that I have and will continue to love for as long as I possibly can. Quite simply, this is Disney's crown jewel!!!
Oh, I'd forgotten how much I actually liked this movie. I hadn't seen it in ages, so I decided to watch it again. Turns out, it's still an awesome movie. Robin Williams as the Genie is one of the greatest casting decisions of all time. He made that character into one of Disney's most memorable and funny. He is easily my favorite part of the entire thing. Jafar is another amazing character in this movie. He's easily one of my favorite Disney villains. He's so utterly despicable and he knows it. It is so much fun watching him on screen. The music freaking rocks too. All of it is catchy and memorable and it makes me want to buy it. You know a soundtrack is good when you can listen to it without visual accompaniment. I'm happy to say, even after all this time, this movie still rocks. Keep right in watching it.
Not only is Aladdin an incredible stand alone, motion picture, it is also (in my opinion) the greatest performance by an actor we lost too soon. Robin Williams.Williams as the Genie, made the film, the fact that he improvised so much and left over 16 hours (more than a day) worth of recording just show how much he made the character his own and I love it when actors do that. This is one of the few films where I felt that a supporting character left a greater mark on the film, he was just so animated and probably the funniest Disney character of all time. The sentimental moments between Aladdin and Genie also got me tearing up, particularly at the end.The other characters were awesome, I honestly believe that this is the Disney film where the two leads have the most chemistry. They just go together, and the fact they are oblivious to whom the other one is but still fall for each other just shows how well they go together. Also, Jafar!!! By far one of the greatest Disney villains of all time. He was funny, menacing and had a devious voice and the contrast between him and Iago A.K.A. The Gilbert Gottfried bird, just made all the more awesome.The music was good, the three songs 'Friend Like Prince Ali ',' A whole new world and Me' are all classics, the rest of the songs were unfortunately forgettable.Overall, Aladdin is great fun, emotional and came at a point when Disney was at its strongest (The Disney Renaissance) and, 22 years on, the Disney magic still holds today.
The Lion King was the first Disney movie that I saw. We used to be taken to the AV Room of our school where we would watch this on a projector. We were only allowed to watch it till the period was going on, so I never saw it after the 40 minute mark. I could not even watch it anywhere else since we didn't have a TV at home (and even if we did what was the guarantee that this movie would be coming on it?) and internet wasn't as popular as it is today (although there are many reviews here dated before the time). So I finally watched it in 2006, and here's my review.Yes, I'm fully aware of the fact that even though Walt Disney Animated Pictures claims this is their first original story, this is in fact stolen from the anime Kimba the White Lion. So in protest I will also not take as much effort as the writer of this movie did. But even with that fact in mind this movie is in fact a spectacle for the eye. The voice acting, the animation, the songs, the coherence, the characters - everything is so wonderful. Simba was pretty cute as a child, which is what brought my interest in lion documentaries.Instead of remaking the movie in live action, Disney should have just remastered this movie in 4K using AI. It would have been much cheaper and the final product would have also been more well received. They could have removed the 1994 one from their Disney+ library for good which would have made everyone watch the remaster and that would have been a huge profit.
Film in my opinion good but very overrated. Cute at times but boring at others, the film introduces iconic characters and poorly written characters, a good balance that makes it beautiful but not wonderful.
That's it.This is a movie for all ages, which should be considered the masterpiece of all masterpieces.
...this movie will always play a vital role in Cinematic history! One of the best emotional movie of our time. I'll never forget this one! Never!Overall : 97/100.
For me, it's the best Disney animation ever. Firstly, the plot is interesting, ot shows the life way of young lion who lost almost everything, but in the end he took almost everything with help of his friends and his own characteristics. Also it shows different types of animals of Africa, its beautiful nature. Secondly, the animation itself is awesome too. Thirdly, the main part of film is soundtrack, thanks for it Sir Elton John.So, it's almost perfect animation.
I remember when i was child my dad rent a vhs and that was The Lion King. Unfortunately after Soviet Union in Azerbaijan there were movies, cartoons always in Russian :( But then i grow i up and learnt English and watched the movie again it was fantastic.
The Lion King (1994) is an animated Disney film that manages to cover in 88 minutes situations that anyone could have experienced in the course of their lives. I love the way they present the habitat of the animals, I can see that the color range is according to the temporality of the scene and what it wants to convey.The film has such a defined narrative that it keeps the viewer connected at all times and in this sense the music (Hans Zimmer) and lyrics (Tim Rice and Elton John) of the soundtrack play a very important role in the different key moments of this film managing to make the viewer feel many emotions.I think that being focused on children, it has some strong scenes, however, the moral of this story makes it an unmissable film and in my opinion one of the best animated films so far.
What is the message of this film? Know your place; even if that means you get eaten!And no amount of orchestration can disguise the mediocrity of these songs.-don't like the style of animation either.
I learned how to live your life facing the past. And what is the importance of life and how are we wasting our time in sadness due to the past. It teaches us everything related to it.And it also tells us to listen to your inner voice. The voice of your heart. I liked the movie a lot.This is a movie that can entertain anyone (young or old). It also shows us about how the very close people your trust can turn into enemies and for their own benefit they can do anything.GREAT MOVIE.
The Lion King is one of hands down my favorite animated movies of all-time! The music, animation, characters, and thematic storytelling are all reasons to consider it a classic! If u have not checked this movie out, please do! This is a film for all ages to enjoy!
Have an open mind and let yourself get sucked in into the movie and it's absolutely amazing. Even though I've watched it since I was a toddler and I'm now an adult, I still get shivers at the beautiful scenery and soundtrack.
This is a film that can entertain everyone, young or old. I'm not typically a fan of animated films, but this one is one of Disney's best animated films. The animation is excellent and of the highest quality. The vocal cast, which includes James Earl Jones, Jeremy Irons, and Whoopi Goldberg, does an outstanding job in this picture. This is a one-of-a-kind piece.
I am a college educated adult, who can wholeheartedly admit, there is no movie better than this. Watch this by yourself, with a few drink or ganja, the tears will Gomez's and you'll understand the deep power this movie contains. Flawless.
The plot involves a young lion cub named Simba is born to be king of the PrideLands just like his father Mufasa. (voiced by James Earl Jones) However his evil brother Scar (voiced by Jeremy Irons) which he's Simba's uncle killed Mufasa in the stampede of wildebeest and banished his nephew. But he's found by a meerkat and warthog named Timon and Pumbaa and taught him about 'Hakuna Matata'. He grew up with his new friends and reunited with his best friend and now love interest Nala. Nala tried to urge Simba to return to Pride Rock, but he refuses and storms off. Until he's found by Rafiki and shows him Mufasa's ghost, Simba realizes that he cannot run away from his past and goes back to confront his evil uncle. He finds out the truth , challenges Scar to end his Tyranny and he now takes his place in the Circle Of Life as the rightful king.I will say The Lion King is my most favorite Disney animated movie of all time and it became my childhood movie by watching my 1995 VHS. I even watched the 2003 DVD Special Edition and this was the best Disney movie ever.
I may have watched this movie more times than I should but I do not care. It makes me happy and I love being happy.
This is one of the best films I have ever seen in my life. The soundtrack is beautiful. A film that touches adults and children. He's on the list of the most beautiful films I've ever seen in my life.
What a wonderful phrase
Hakuna Matata!Ain't no passing craze
It means no worries
For the rest of your days
It's our problem-free philosophy
Hakuna Matata!Why, when he was a young warthog
When I was a young wart-hoooog!Very nice!Thanks!He found his aroma lacked a certain appeal
He could clear the Savannah after every meal
I'm a sensitive soul, though I seem thick-skinned
And it hurt that my friends never stood downwind
And oh, the shame
(He was ashamed!)
Thought of changin' my name
(Oh, what's in a name?)
And I got downhearted
(How did you feel?)
Every time that I-
Pumbaa! Not in front of the kids!Oh... sorry
Hakuna Matata!What a wonderful phrase
Hakuna Matata!Ain't no passing craze
It means no worries
For the rest of your days
Yeah, sing it, kid!It's our problem-free philosophy
Hakuna Matata!Hakuna Matata
Hakuna Matata
Hakuna Matata
Hakuna
It means no worries
For the rest of your days
It's our problem-free philosophy
Hakuna Matata.
The Lion King (1994)Duration : 1h 28min
Category : Animation, Adventure, Drama
Release : 24 June 1994
Country : (USA)A newly born child of the kings were been showed to the entire jungle and all the animals present on there. He were been announced to be the next king of the jungle. Every animal was in a festive look and in the celebration. The monkey is one of the close friend of the kings family.While playing, he went to a strange place , with his two friend. One of them warned him not to go near to the cave. But the little lion, Simba, did not hear to them. As a result, they all trapped in a trouble. There were three Hyenas', who were evil. They attacked on them . They were in a big trouble and suddenly, the king came and save them. As he was the king of the entire jungle, he saved his offspring and others.The king were so disappointed to Simba. He tought a lot of things to him.There was a brother of the king . He always wanted to be the king, but as there is already a king, his desire were not to be fulfilled. He met with the Hayenas and made a plan to kill the king. The whole flock of hyenas' were with the evil lion, as he give them word to ensure their food , when he would be the king.One day, a flock of wild buffalos' were grazing and having frightened from the lion, they started to the other road. On the meantime, Simba were walking alone there. He was in a big trouble. He evil lion , Scar, informed the king that his son were in a big trouble. Then the king came to rescue him and he succeed. But while climbing on the hill, there were Scar and he fell the king from the top of the hill. The king died.Scar blame Simba responsible for the die of the king. As Simba were so little to understand that, he was suggested to leave the place and never to came back. He did so, but at that time, the hyenas followed him and wanted to kill.Simba escaped from them and went on a desert. He were unconscious and then he meet with Timon and Pumbaa, who became friend of his and grew with them.One day, they were searching for food, one Leone attacked to Pumbaa. Simba came to rescue him. Then the leone found that it was her lost friend Simba. She told all the misery of the jungle. She wanted him to return and take his responsibilities. But he is not agreed.Then he met the monkey, who were a good friend of the lion family. He reintroduced with the lessons that the lion learnt Simba. He convinced.Simba returned to his land. He went to Scar. After a great fight, he found his kingdom back.After ascending on and taking the responsibilities, all the things became normal and the son of Simba and his best friend, Nala, were introduced by the monkey........................................
Roger Allers and Rob Minkoff debuted in feature films addressing this timeless story and dramatic, discussing loss, family relationship, inspired courage and honor in the play Hamlet by William Shakespeare, the movie Bambi, and the stories of Joseph and Moses, the Bible, and without forgetting the traditional moral message of Disney to your audience. The studio brought together more than 800 artists across three continents, who worked three years to create a story of love, friendship, courage and teachings that enchanted the world. Only the creative part, the film proves to be one of the great examples of collaboration in your script, with almost 30 professionals who helped in creating the plot, which had as main writers trio Irene Mecchi, Jonathan Roberts and Linda Woolverton.The quality of the animation is a unique treatment, emphasizing the full power of Disney to represent the entire African savanna, a scene never before explored in animations. For both the studio took about three years in the production of the film.Another great merit of encouraging merge was wild with human bodily expressions, especially in animals over humans as Zazu, Scar and Timon (probably because they are the most cowardly and rational characters). Zazu crosses wings, holds the bars of his cage and has very human facial expressions. Scar gestures legs and caresses Simba gestures typically human. Timon is the clearest example. He exaggerated gestures, crosses his legs, among other various facial expressions. At some point - when Simba is to be reprimanded by her father after he disobeyed and went to the Elephant Graveyard - he is afraid of his father and lowers the tail and ears and walks with a stooped posture. Soon after, when they play, both assume new postures amid wild somersaults and bites. The other characters show humanity in its looks and typically human care, such as when the mother of Simba, Sarabi, conversation with the mother of Nala allowing them to walk around, but accompanied by Zazu, demonstrating the inherent concern as mothers.The characters, however, are the secret of the plot. Besides the technique with which they were made, their personalities are captivating, and helped a lot by excellent team of voice actors. Zazu, voiced by Rowan Atkinson - Mr. Bean's famous - is the faithful servant of King Mufasa, that puts all confidence in the bird. Atkinson lends distinctive voice and mannerisms comedic giving a unique personality to the character. James Earl Jones with his distinctive voice is the one who gives life to Mufasa. The actor - who is also the voice of Darth Vader in 'Star Wars' - is the ideal choice for the majesty of the king of the jungle. The character always keeps a didactic discourse during the movie. His strong voice while loving, especially in the speeches with Simba are some of the best moments. The life lessons he gives Simba directly reflect the audience and only serve to further admire the great king and to engage deeply in the episode of his death. This scene, by the way, is one of the most remembered and have become classic to the seventh art. Jeremy Irons is one that is flawless. Always maintaining a drawling voice, dramatic and that suits the way slim, lazy and treacherous brother Mufasa. Jonathan Taylor Thomas plays a charming Simba, a young lion that giving all the curious spirit of age. Simba is adventurous, curious, fearless, dreamy, loving, but like every kid, just getting into danger by their desire to become king soon, and do not listen to the advice of elders. But above all, he loves his parents. When Simba grows, Matthew Broderick is who dubs the character, managing to convey a lack of confidence and existential doubt that the character felt in much of the film. Robert Guillaume is another that stands voicing the wise Rafiki. Even just appearing on the scene, notice the careful composition of the character, where the actor has a voice that comes to intelligence, life experience and mysticism fundamental to the character. Rafiki is essential to teach Simba to deal with the pain, death and guilt, and thus overcome them. Whoopi Goldberg, Cheech Marin and Jim Cummings dub the three hyenas, Shenzi, Banzai and Ed. Despite being allies of the villain, hyenas can be threatening when put in correctly closes the directors, but also pluck laughter in the audience through his own laughter, especially Jim Cummings as EdBut the highlights are even worshiped boar meerkat Timon and Pumba. The duo was so successful that the characters have earned their own series produced between 1995 and 1999. Nathan Lanee Ernie Sabella as Timon and Pumbaa respectively, are of fundamental importance to increase the air comic plot and being the great family support Simba during their growth phase. Timon is remarkable for its high ironic, selfish, fragile, while Pumbaa is strong, has a deep voice and imposing and yet is naiver than Timon. The reversal of character between the two that constrastam with their physical is what most pleases. The pair of friends teaches Simba to live through Hakuna Matata (no problem) and are the protagonists of the funniest scenes of the projection, and it is implied that the overcoming of the problems is only possible when we have friends who support us.Few people know that The Lion King was one of the pioneers in introducing the use of CG in their scenes. The photograph used with intelligence knows lighting, giving bright scenes during the day a cheerful and harmonious shared by all. But when we witness the scenes that take place in the Cemetery of the Elephants, the scenes are more bleak, cold, dark and depict well the danger that those who dare to enter the site submit. This play of light is efficiently used all the time. We can repair all the time that Mufasa and the other characters of the good are always bright and impressive. It is clear the importance given to the nature and animals, implying that large from ants to elephants are vital and equal to the life cycle of endless work and stay in constant balance. Scar already on the other hand, as hyenas, is always in shadow. The timing of this is clearer when Scar, taking advantage of the innocence of his nephew and hungry hyenas and ignorant to achieve its goal of assuming the throne, reigns with tyranny emerging in his kingdom of darkness new times. We note the kingdom with a less grandiose landscape, darker, melancholic, even where the lionesses do have to go hunting in search of scarce food. Still, Scar is unable to recover the devastation that his government has caused to the ecosystem, denoting a mood of unhappiness and tyranny, contrasting totally with the times of the reign fair, balanced and harmonious with the nature of Mufasa.Another significant moment in the use of colors and lighting is the meeting Simba and Nala, where we can see a color that reflects the love between the two, even after years without seeing each other. Incidentally, it is interesting to climate change in a few minutes in this sequence. After this most romantic moment involving music, we have a brief discussion between Simba and Nala, and he soon after walking through a long and winding path that we all must pass to find our true destiny. This track is represented full of twigs and night lighting has to expand this idea of being lost until the moment we find our personal responses, the end of this track, with the help of Rafiki and the image of his father, he finally finds his place in the world and seeking to resume his leadership of the kingdom.As mentioned briefly before, the soundtrack is another outstanding feature. The German master Hans Zimmer (Days of Thunder (1990), Thelma & Louise (1991), True Romance (1993)) consists here perhaps his first major commercial success of many others that would. The instrumental track known to be lively and dramatic moments in the prone, involving the viewer in an impressive way. The integration of the track to what we see happening is magic. A beautiful instrumental music is 'Under the Stars'. Zimmer manages to be light and happy all the time. But when Scar appears on the scene we can see a trail darker accompanying color changes and shadows in scenes. Already on track sung, we also adding musicians like Elton John and Tim Rice as important contributors. Among the tracks are: 'Circle of Life', 'I Just Can not Wait to be King', 'Be Prepared', 'Hakuna Matata', 'Can You Feel The Love Tonight?'. They are all beautiful songs and working with the narrative, often telling the feelings of the characters at any given time. Oscar in 1995, the five songs that competed in the category for best song, three were of the Disney movie 'Circle of Life', 'Hakuna Matata' and the big winner, 'Can You Feel The Love Tonight'. The same categories were also winners in Oscar winning at the Golden Globes in the same year. And Hans Zimmer won best soundtrack, as was to be expected.The Lion King is the legitimate representative of the Golden Age of Disney, full of endearing characters, with traditional and efficient lessons of life, ethics and morals of the company, with a history well based, fun and exciting, it values ties family, respect for hierarchy, and respectful and harmonious coexistence among the different beings. A big show of animation that marked a generation. Viva the Great King of the Jungle and Hakuna Matata!
The lion king taught me circle of life on my mind . Here we are to corrupt this circle . Hope some effective hazard erase human race entirley , and give other living beings live peacefully.
The Lion King is a classic movie. The plot isn't original, but that's not really a problem. It's good.
The Lion King wasn't really one of my favorite movies growing up, but I enjoyed it as a kid and you can't deny the great animation and great voice acting that still holds up. It's definitely a movie millions remember fondly of, and appreciate till this day.
I love The Lion King. I always have. I'm thirteen and my mom and sister have had me watching this since I was a baby. I love this movie so much! I love Scar and his evilness (I guess that's the right word) and I love when he sings 'Be Prepared'. I love when Simba, Nala, and Zazu sing 'Can't Wait to be King'. I have also always loved and always will love when Timon, Pumba, and Simba sing 'Hakuna Matata'. I just love listening to these songs and all of the other songs too. It's just these three that I love the most. I have always loved this movie and always will.
Second best villain song of any Disney movie. Hard to top the cast and animation on this one. I guess by definition you can't, cause it's a 10 out of 10.
This movie, while not perfect, has it all. Good animation, good direction, all star cast, and most of all, music from Elton John.There are some technical issues with the production, but as a whole this is good for the family and kids. I enjoy that there is no bad language or sex involved with the movie. No violence (other than the cartoon stuff) and it actually as a moral lesson.Even after three decades, the movie is still relevant.
This is a film that call attention through all cast, for me is great story. Voices, feature and good landscape, learn to expect. Check on all inspired features animations based on anyone beast.
It's simply astonishing how this film is able to be so solidly fantastic, rewatch after rewatch. The story lures me in with its take on the classic hero's journey, and it keeps me engaged until the very end. The music fits amazingly and gives me goosebumps every single time. As a child, I loved the slapstick humour, and as an adult, I discovered the numerous funny wordplays. The musical songs are fantastic, ranging from spooky (Be Prepared) to romantic (Can You Feel the Love Tonight) to joyful (I Just Can't Wait to Be King). The voice acting is brilliantly on-point, with Rowan Atkinson as Zazu and Jeremy Irons as Scar being my favourites. And on top of everything else, I found the film's plot so satisfyingly coherent, I can't help but give this a 10/10. It just works (for me).
Without a doubt, this is my favourite Disney film of all time. It's a film I've introduced all of my nieces and nephews too, and one day I'll introduce my own kids to this too. The circle of life story is so key for us all. There will always be hard moments and evil people we have to deal with, but we can overcome it with some help from some good and true people in our lives. That moment in the end when Simba finally walks up the rock to rightfully claim his place as king and roars, always gets me; they manage to capture how tough the struggle is and even with the look of awe from his friends and family in that moment, I just love it and I love this film. I always think kid stories should teach people about good and evil and the Lion King does this brilliantly. In that way its a kids and adult story all in one, and as a young adult, I still think it's brilliant! I can't recall how many times I've watched the play in London and NYC, and have taken friends and family to see this too. This will always be a classic. I can't wait till this is back in the theatre (London and New York) - already planning to take some of my young family members to see it early next year when it should hopefully be safe.
An awesome movie , perfect for every age ! Recommend it !
I love this movie, The original lion king was a classic unlike its live action counter part.
Funnier version of the William Shakespeare play!!!!!!
One of the greatest animated films no doubt about it. Rarely do animated shows and movies nowadays live up to expectations for both kids and adults. The Lion King is a classic animated film that has been prasied and loved by the Disney fandom for more than 20 years and one that was a gamechanger for Disney.Solid story that has a great adaptive atmosphere and writing. The song scenes were very good and for a kids movie it had very good emotional emphasis. The characters were well written. Couple of the best were Simba, the banished prince/king. Scar, the manipulative/evil uncle. And Rafiki the wise/funny grandpa you wished you had. The visuals were impressive considering this was made in the 90s, very high quaility with likable artstyle and character design. And lastly the music was awesome mixed with african drum beats and a great voice acting cast.Overall an enjoyable movie Both old and young will find this film likable.Memorable: So so (Nostalgia) Rewatchble: Maybe..
Taking a Shakesphere approach and pushing it to the limit, The Lion King presents a mature yet authentic story while balancing its characters and funny/ dark moments. You can walk up to anyone on the street and ask ''How did you feel when Scar threw Mufasa off the cliff?'' and they'll tell you they were devastated. With its memorable soundtrack, gorgeous animation and amazing ending, The Lion King is not only the best Disney movie, but is quite possibly, the greatest animated movie of all time!
All the Kids, from all over the world, will forever Love this awesome movie & learn to Love Animals, Love Humanity!
This is without a doubt a top five movie of all time. The incredible storytelling paired with an important message. 10/10!!
I thought the the first one was good and you guys amazed me with second one!
The Lion King is an absolute delight to watch. I feel like it's the best movie ever made by Disney, and one of the best movies ever made in general. It beautifully portrays Hamlet in a funny and charming way and is told with some of the most beautiful hand-drawn animation ever produced. It explores the themes of self-identity, grief and honour in a beautiful and emotionally-destructive way. The characters all do what they're supposed to do without being too annoying or bland. Scar is an intimidating and terrifying villain who really packs a punch. The songs are all outstanding, my personal favorites being 'Hakuna Matata' and 'Be Prepared'. It has some the most gorgeous score I've ever heard in a movie which makes the emotional scenes even more sad to watch, to the point where I'm just bawling my eyes out in a little ball on the floor. It's an important movie that everyone in their lifetime should watch, and I really mean it.
This film has everything that a Disney movie needs. Music, drama, comedy, love, sadness, action as well as a amazing story and great fun loving characters. A movie great for all ages.
An epic movie an all time classic, great music. Only downside it's an African movie but has North American accents... seems inappropriate
If you didn't guess, this is that one Disney film that I don't think will ever be beaten. At least not by anything they're squirting out nowadays.And while thinking about what sets it apart and elevates it to that level when compared to the other Disney films I've talked about recently, I came to the conclusion that it's because none of the protagonists in those films have a real arc. Seriously, think about it. Snow White is always a nice, helpful person, Peter Pan is always heroic (and if you want to tell me Wendy is actually the main character then she always believes in Peter Pan), Mowgli is adamant he's staying in the jungle right until the end of the film, and Ariel is always fascinated by the human world, and gets to live in it happily ever after by the end.But something that I feel isn't typically recognised about this one is that Simba is a spoiled little unlikable brat right up until *that* moment, and only then does the titular 'lion king' start to come out of him.But at the same time, he doesn't make the first act of the film unbearable, because the other characters are so memorable and charismatic, the cast is one of the best ever assembled for an animated film, the animation is absolutely stunning and that m u s i c. I don't mean just the songs, although they're all great too, I mean the score by Hans Zimmer is easily one of, if not his absolute best.And the whole thing just feels so much more mature and epic than anything else I've seen from Disney, I mean there's even a little bit of symbolism sometimes, that most kids' films just won't bother with.And it's so much better directed than any of those other films I mentioned to boot, so yeah. As far as I'm concerned, this is peak Disney, and you can absolutely yeet the remake off of Pride Rock.
I dropped my Lion King VHS from the top shelf as a kid and it broke so I couldn't watch it anymore but yeah good movie
The animals were epic fam! However there was too much love and gross stuff. That wouldn't bother most people but I'm mentally and intellectually six years old. Also the sun set animation was cool as epic fam! 🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥
The soundtrack speaks for itself. It's not just the headline numbers that are exquisite, the score in total is extraordinarily good. Obviously you know the headliners such as 'Circle of Life' and 'I Just Can't Wait to be King', if you don't you have been living under a rock for the last 25 years. Personally I think three catchiness and just. All. Around brilliance of the songs are what elevated this movie to the height it is now. Don't get it twisted though this movie, even without the songs, would be some of the best all time. The thing that makes the score so amazing is the seeming revolutionary techniques used. These techniques from African countries, such as full choirs with little to no backing and using tongue clicks and other non-tonal devices for rhythm. This score has been influential to other movies, namely another Hans zimmer composition, The Dark Knight Rises (2012), which it's main theme is purely singing, showing the clear parallel.
The opening is genuinely one of the best, sure to give you chills. This is not only because of the nostalgia, but also the animation and song playing. It also introduces you perfectly to Pride Rock, which is perfect for children and adults alike.
The voice acting is tremendous throughout, but it is also quite dumbfounding how actors that have played such iconic characters can seem so disconnected from them. This is especially shown through James Earl Jones, who in this movie plays Mufasa, but has probably the most iconic voice in all of cinema. Who doesn't know what Darth Vader sounds like? This is a testament to his acting ability as you recognise the voice slightly but ultimately doesn't suck you out of the movie as it usually would.
Considering this was 1994, the animation is terrific. There is a bit at the end, where they are in slow motion that doesn't hold up to the rest of the movie. I won't pretend to be an expert in animation but I would probably guess that it's considerably harder.
The themes preached through this movie are great for children to learn about honour and responsibilities. It's also has eerie parallels to Shakespeare's Hamlet as it discusses the moral impact of killing. This helps the older audience to stay interacted into the movie and really sticks in your mind for days.
It''s truly thee quintessential children's movie, teaching children key themes necessary to growing up and on top of that its just a quality movie that anyone can level with and thou Riley enjoy, no matter the age.
Movies such as this and Toy Story really make the 'Its just a dumb children's film' invalid.
Its the best animated film of all time. Along with maybe Beauty and the Beast, The Lion King raised the bar for animation. I remember being 9 years old watching it in the theater and being memorized by how real some shots looked. The story is a entire generation's introduction to life's unexpected tragedies. Its just as funny as it is awe inspiring with it's epic animation all carried by a story that could be considered Shakespearean like. If you grew up in the 90s and didn't see this film as a young kid, your life isn't as complete as you may think. Those same 90s kids today have a responsibility to show this to your kids. If they don't like it or want to watch it again, consider adoption cause those kids are hopeless.
Really amazing animated film!For anyone that hasn't seen it, the story is basically an adaptation of Shakespeare's Hamlet set in the African pride-lands, with animals as it's main characters. In short, lion cub Simba is the next heir to the throne, with his dad Mufasa the current king. Mufasa's brother Scar jealously feels that he should have been next in line and that is where we have our villain, and a good one at that. I can't give anything else away, but what follows is a fantastic adventure mixing good-vs-evil, great characters and a very Shakespearean story of revenge and coming- of-age.
Most of it is nitpicking, but as an adult I have grown to appreciate movies for their stories and I must say that the third act (the final conflict) is a little rushed and it threw my adult mind off a little bit, having just witnessed such a fantastic build up. But other than that, I was surprised to find that none of the characters or songs annoy me as they do many other adults that saw it as a kid. Another thing that is always brought to my attention is that the message of the film is a little mixed (which I won't spoil).
The first full length animated story movie. This really mesmerized the concept. The whole story is simple but presented in a cute way. There are many life's lessons which are applicable to humans as well. I rate 10 only when I feel the movie is worth watching again and again
I love it since childhood!
I love the characters and the music. I never liked the tragedy and darkness of the plot though, that's why I put 8.
Songs are great whatever language you translate them to. And the drawings (animation) is a classic Disney.
I loved this cartoon so much that even had stickers with Lion King characters. And now I've got a T-shirt with little Simba.
This is, to this day, the most perfect movie of Disney. The Shakespearean movie is probably the most heartwarm film of this company that outdid itself with this one.
Isn't it amazing how a performance in an animated movie can give you goosebumps?
Even though all the great aspects of the film, I would say Jeremy Irons finds a way to steal the show, encarnating the heartless Scar, an abandoned brother who gets his revenge.
The music is amazing, the rest of the cast is also good, the screenplay hooks you into the movie from the beginning (thanks to Shakespeare), and even the cinematography (which is ridiculous to say, given the fact that we're talking about an animated movie).
To sum up, this movie is almost perfect in ever sense, though some things could be lightly improved (the animation for example).
One of the best movies for children to watch in the 90's.
LK Wasn't my fav Disney movie growing up( That goes to Aladdin) but a very strong and unforgettable story. Probably a little too sad for a Disney movie but there's still no denying Lion Kong's legendary status.
It's very special for me. Because it is the first movie i watch in Cinema in 1995 in Turkey.
Just amazing !
Nothing more, nothing less this movie is a Masterpiece.
Disney's The lion king... Beautifully animated and adorable music score it's always more than that you can expect from an animated film
An amazing story about love, friendship, life, death. Furthermore, the soundtrack is incredible too. One of my favorite animation movie.
Most people connect to the animation and the songs. These aspects are both very lovely. The African vistas are breath taking. There is a lushness to the animation that stays with you. And the animators are smart enough to not be bound by strict realism. Several sequences are expressionistic and highly stylized to the benefit of the film. The songs are all catchy, striking. If you are of a certain age the circle of life is burnt into your memory. The best-and worst as I will explain-aspects of the film are realized in 'Be Prepared.' The animators are bold enough to reference Triumph of the Will to great effect while the music is utterly memorable.Yet for that Be Prepared is the sequence in which Scar is presented at his most effeminate, gay to code him as evil. Coding in this film is done in a blunt, unartful way that distracts from the film once you are wise enough to spot it. The Hyenas-all voiced by actors of color-are racially coded as 'different' from the lions and the big plot point is how this differences result in a ghetto for the pride lands. The film is obsessed with monarchy and 'natural' order; it's ultimately rooted in Hamlet but the spiritual aspects of the film-i.e. the weather-put a lot of weight onto Simba being the hereditary king. The film at its core is undemocratic, anti-modern and that is something I cannot get behind.
This is, objectively, perfect. For me, I found Simba to be the most boring character in the film. Not sure if that's an unpopular opinion or not but that's what I thought. Scar was brilliantly evil, Pumba was awesome and the music is unforgettable. I rated it an 8 just because it killed my favourite character way too soon really. It was very good throughout though.
As a kid I loved this movie. As an adult I read the script and still love it. The dialogue was spot on. Dialog was too. A master piece this film is
It's pretty cool. Although I admit Simba would never be good enough to even wipe Mufasa's shoes, cause he was the real king, with a great personality. Simba is alright, but not quite there yet.
Otherwise I guess it's a nice spin on the cycle of life.
Plot of this movie is very good and you must watch this movie
The best animation ever made in history. In addition to a soundtrack filled with perfection, a wonderful story, which never tires of being seen. An animation that will mark generations forever.Film reviewed on the 26th to the 27th of November 2020.
Good lord, I remember it being good but not THIS good. This is by far the most cinematic Disney movie. Every scene is filled with gorgeous animation and direction. The songs are fantastic as well, this might have the best overall song quality of any Disney movie. The movie is perfectly paced and plotted, and I was never bored even for a second. The characters are well written and Simba's struggle to overcome hs traumatic past is incredibly engaging. I love his bond with his dad, and Mufasa's death is probably the saddest scene in all of Animation. Scar is also an amazing antagoist, constantly manipulating Simba into thinking and doing what Scar wants him to. The side characters are fantastic as well. Nala, Rafiki and Timon and Pumba all have a lesson to teach Simba, and they all have very distinct personalities. The climax is well set up, and Scar's death is oddly poetic, as he never respected the Hyenas and get to feel their wrath. This is one of the best Disney movies, it's almost without flaws and I have no problem calling it a true cinematic masterpiece, as I wholeheartedly think it deserves it.
This movie is near perfect. Its one of the best coming of age stories I have ever seen. I mean you look back at this 26+ year old movie and think man, was Disney better back then. With one of the best villains ever put to screen and some of the saddest moments that will stick with you forever. But man along those sad moments you have perfectly balanced happy moments. The songs in this movie are a rare treat because they are great and they don't make you cringe they make you smile. All in all this is one of the best animated movies Disney has ever put out.Highly Recommend.8/10.
I respect this movie since I was a little kid,it's one of my favorite Disney movies,there's betrayal,friendship,love,great songs etc. It even won oscars! If you don't like it you definitely don't appreciate your life or other people's work.
This movie is one of the best movies have ever made really love it
Warning: Spoilers
Ah...'The Lion King.' There's so much I can say about this movie but all my comments always come down to one thing: this movie is beautiful. Pure genius. A timeless story. I might be a little biased in my beliefs, seeing as the first movie I remember seeing in theatres is 'The Lion King' and I still watch it on a regular basis and know all the words but I'm sure there are plenty of people out there who agree with what I have to say. 'The Lion King' is beautiful; hands down, it is the best Disney film ever created.The story is something that everyone can relate to, whether they are a lion ;) or not. Simba is destined to become king one day and just can't wait to rule the throne; everyone can relate to wanting to grow up and become an adult, to do whatever they want and not have to worry about anything. His father tries to teach him that, despite the fact that he will one day be grown and king, his life will not be easy. Simba has to learn his lesson the hard way when his Uncle Scar, who, too, wants the throne, kills his father and convinces Simba that it was his fault. Suddenly, growing up doesn't seem so great anymore (I can *really* relate to that).And so, Simba flees his home and comes across Timon and Pumbaa, two other outcasts. They teach Simba the 'Hakuna Matata' lifestyle, something that idealizes a life free of stress, worry and responsibility. Now, don't we all wish we could live this way? No worries for the rest of our days... But when Simba's childhood friend Nala returns, he realizes that he can't live Hakuna Matata forever, for he does have a responsibility to his pride and his homeland. Simba understands that he must grow up, as we all do, and does what's right.The songs are catchy and fit the movie well (the original songs, of course, though 'The Morning Report' isn't too bad) and the score is haunting and beautiful. Along with the art work, the music captures the heart of Africa.With the types of shows that children watch these days (boy, doesn't that make me sound old?), it's a wonder they'll learn in virtues and values at all. 'The Lion King' is a great teacher when it comes to learning lessons that will carry throughout their lifetime. 'The Lion King' teaches children that it's all right to be a kid but you must understand and accept responsibility for things you can and cannot control. Everyone has a place in The Circle of Life and we must find it; the film also teaches that we will encounter bad and even terrible things during our lifetime but we must accept them and move on. These are important, meaningful lessons; heck, I even used them in my SAT essay! 'The Lion King' is a film for every generation and is a powerful film that all children should see. I'm past my childhood now and I still watch it whenever I get the chance; I look forward to sharing it with my children.A timeless film!
You can't beat one of the greatest Disney movies of all time!
This movie is a classic. It's plot is realistic to that of human experiences. The characters are all unique. What makes this movie so wonderful is the soulfulness vibe it gives off. My favorite scene is with 'Rafiki' - he's wise and hilarious!
I love you elton for helping make the soundtrack and i love everyone involved
Okay, first of all I believe this movie is not a ripoff of Kimba the While Lion. There's a video on YT by YMS which goes into detail on that. Check it out before labeling this as a ripoff or whatever.That said, I did not like this movie at all. Perhaps it is because I did not watch it as a child and had no nostalgia for it. Or perhaps it is because I watch a lot of Lion shows on Discovery/Nat Geo, etc. and nothing depicted in this is at all realistic and honestly a story about an actual lion pride is much, much more interesting and appealing to me. Or perhaps this would have worked better with humans (Hamlet is what it is based on I believe). Or maybe this is just a bad movie?I did not connect with any of the characters even if I was to give in to the suspension of disbelief completely. Did not like the musical numbers, the story or the direction. The fact that Simba or whatever the main character is called gets it on with most likely his sister or cousin (lion prides always have related males as heads) made me sick. I suppose the voice acting of the villain named -ugh, really- Scar was fine (why did he have a different accent than his brother though?). That's about it. Don't get the praise for this movie at all. It was a total slog to sit through.That said, since most people love it, give it a go if you haven't, you'll probably like it.
Simba and their friends Timon and pumba sings along 'hakuna matada' and also simba challenge scar to defeat and becomes the king! I gave 8 out of 10 is because 2 reasons. Because of mild violence and against lion fighting. And lion hunts animal scenes. But not a bad movie at all!
One of Disney's best animated films, the scene of Mufasa's death was one of the saddest moments of my childhood
It has a good storyline and good animation, and I don't think it is specifically targeted to an age, so everyone can enjoy it!
I believe that these stories will never go out of fashion, new generations will have the opportunity to see it in other current formats, but its original version will have the magic and innocence of always.
Would rate 100000000 if I could. Best Disney movie of all
The best Disney animated film ever...This film had it all, it was funny, emotional, had family drama, and above all, great animation and songs! My personal favorite character is Rafiki, the Baboon! I still cant forget the line he says to Simbe, 'Past can hurt, but as I see it, you can either run from it, or learn from it!' it is so true! i loved Zazu's weirdness, and shenzi's humour, above all, i loved Pumba's innocence and Timon's intelligence! In short, i found the film the best film ever... The voice cast is also great. Mathew did complete justice to Simba, and what can I say about Mufasa, He is the best King, and dad anyone can ever get! The movie is not meant for kids, its meant to teach every adult a lesson...to find our place in the great 'Circle Of Life'. I give this film a perfect 10.
I must say I can't think of anything bad about this movie. Every character is unique, every song is catchy and well-written, every scene is beautifully animated, every line of dialogue is spoken perfectly. It gets better every time I watch it. I highly recommend this movie for people of all ages.
I like this movie and it was so much awesome so i lkie this movie so much
When this movie came out, I enjoyed great songs & animations and focused on Simba's development from naïve, irresponsible, arrogant cub to responsible and resilient lion king. However, there are way more layers to this movie. It is a political drama about the burden of the crown. The crown never chooses whom does not take it seriously. The rivalry between uncle and nephew over kingdom became easy concept and helped a lot to get through Shakespeare.As I get older, I empathize more with Simba. 'Am I worthy enough for this job, this person, or this house?' 'What is my position in this society, and what can I do for it?' So many questions rise, and I see myself in Simba's self-realization. As I get older, My focus shifts to Mufasa. He is a great leader, father, and philosopher. Even though he is a carnivore, he emphasizes 'circle of life'. Some boundaries are kept, and he only keeps his share to keep Pride Rock sustainable. This is a great message to today's world, too.This film breaks prejudice that I have had for Disney. When I think of Disney, diversity is not the concept that pops first in my head. Disney certainly has its stereotype protagonist. A white princess who waits to be rescued or to be given the opportunity. However, from the start of this movie, Disney tried hard to bring diversity into consideration. The whole African theme is magnificent including music and settings.
I watched this again and it was boring. I don't know. It just didn't have the spark like other Disney movies do.I mean we all know the story and have seen it. Nothing really to say here. I don't think it's that good.Worth watching though6 stars
There's a calm surrender to the rush of day
When the heat of the rolling wind can be turned away
An enchanted moment,and it sees me through
It's enough for this restless warrior just to be with you.And can you feel the love tonight
It is where we are
It's enough for this wide-eyed wanderer
That we got this far
And can you feel the love tonight
How it's laid to rest
It's enough to make kings and vagabonds
Believe the very bestThere's a time for everyone if they only learn
That the twisting kaleidoscope moves us all in turn
There's a rhyme and reason to the wild outdoors
When the heart of this star-crossed voyager beats in time with yours
Beautiful in every aspect, this is what kids movies should be like.
This is a beautiful story. Both hilarious and heartbreaking. The songs are brilliant. The villain is delightfully despicable. There are some slightly weird moments, yeah. A few scenes don't make much sense. Nevertheless, absolutely fabulous.
This film is very compelling. It is based on some Shakespearean and mythological works and the influence definitely shows as the scale seems very epic. Not to mention this engaging story is backed up by some amazing animation and energetic soundtrack. It follows the life of the prince Simba from his birth to his adulthood and all the tribulations faced along the way, with a cast of memorable characters like the seer Rafiki, the villain Scar, the father Mufasa and the waste fellows Timon and Pumbaa. Every single moment is infused with pure energy and pathos. A must-see.
A coming of age story that is timeless. It deals with the transition of childhood to adolescence to adulthood. It as good and relavant in 1994 as it is in 2020. The music the laughter and the tears are a perfect balance. Something for everyone in this
I love it i want to see another mhm but i love the baby lion he is so cute
There's a reason this is considered a classic. And while that term has been used or rather missused over at least the last couple of years or decade(s), this is one of those times it really fits. The movie is an animated fairy tale, that is also a bit grim at times. Still this is the circle of life ... and has so many memorable songs. Listening to the audio commentary, you come to realize how many things were in the balance while making this. How many things that are being considered genius now, were last minute decisions or things that they were doubting themselves (or the studio did).So it is a fine line, between making somethinng reat and failing at making something at all. Fortunately for us (and Disney of course) they really hit the ball out of the park (which is a baseball metaphor as I understand and is something good). This being so short (considereing the additional 30 minutes I think of the remake), make it a fast and enjoyable ride.Apart from the fine animation (the remale looks photorealistic and can almost not be considered animation, both look awesome), you have fantastic voice actors. This is true for both films, but it was way more difficult in the 90s to convince actors to lend their voice to an animated movie. Known 'regular' actors that is, because apparently it was all an imaging/marketing thing for them too. Which is understandable - but anyone who didn't get on board with this, might have many regrets now. Good thing they were able to convince the cast they ended up using. The voices add to the overall feeling.There is something for the whole family here - and hopefully you can see that too - no pun intended
My siblings favorite movie of all time recommend it our favorite part is that song uku mata tata is my sibling favorite song
This was the first animation movie I watched on the big screen and I absolutely loved it. Great family movie night entertainment.
Simba was moved to cry again. I hope Disney can make moreexcellent animated films. I want to take my children to see them.
The lion king has been praised for years and will continue on. The Lion King is the One of the best animated movie of all time. It fill with magic, excellent songs composed by the great Elton John and the incredible score of Hans Zimmer. The King will live forever
With an excellent story, beautiful animation, beautiful songs and memorable characters, the best animated film of all time is made. TOTALLY RECOMMENDED!
This is the most generic and lame animated movie ever made. Firstly, it's a complete rip-off of Kimba the White Lion. Secondly, on it's own it's still terrible. Scar is the most predictable and stereotypical villain ever - Selfish, dark looking, have scars, betrays and backstabs everyone, wants power. You could not make any more generic villain. Simba is so spoiled, he disobeys rules which have obvious consiquences, he do not have any responsibility all he cares about fun, until at the end of the film he takes the leadership. There are tons of songs in this film which makes it incredibly annoying and kills pacing. The story is very simple and weak. The only good thing about this film is humor. I suspect that anyone who claims this is the best animated film, has only seen Disney movies.
It's a film we can talk and talk about for hours. Although this is not a recent movie but it contains lots of ideas such as friendship, parenting, etc. Just watch that and enjoy every single word.
This is a movie for the ages... a timeless masterpiece. The story has a great message and filled with values and life lessons. I have watched this countless times, and this movie never gets old. The music score is so fitting, also very special.
A film that only get better with repeat viewings and age, The Lion King is a fantastic animated masterpiece that is among Disney's finest achievements. Stellar voice work, great musical score, beautiful to look at and emotionally complex and riveting.
Such a good movie for the family! Grab the kids and some snacks, and it's perfect for a family night. Some parts of the movie may be tough for young children.
What a movie.....what a music....man, movies shd be like this...those who consider it just as cartoon or a mere animation genre let me say them knock knock...plz get up...its time for you to leave now
The story of courage and growth, even after many years, even in different times, can still make people feel. Simba has embarked on the road to kingship in the twists and turns of life.
One of my favourite Disney kids movie's growing up, the music is amazing made me cry this movie just worked perfectly couldn't say a bad thing about it
I have to start by commending the best part of this movie, and that's the musical score. not the songs, but the background music. it is phenomenal. brought ridiculous intensity to so many scenes. the songs are great as well, Be Prepared being my clear favorite.so many likable characters, even the villains. great story. very funny, all-around well-made. i have nothing bad to say about this movie. i really want to give it an 8 but comparatively it fits in with 7's based on my rewatch frequency. i also think i clearly enjoy aladdin (8/10) more than this one. will reconsider on my next viewing. (about 7 viewings, 7/2/2020)
The music is so good, I like the music very much. I prefer to have an animal like a pig in it than a lion. It's very cute.
Full of moved, think of a child rental disc, flash over so many years!We used to play, think the most exotic is!! A few little friends!! Sitting with a small bench looking at the Lion King!! Simba and sika deer! And so many friends! The scene of fighting together! Friendship!!!!!In the future most want to let children see the cartoon is the Lion King!! Can also let him learn, anything, belong to their own will take back, don't be afraid, dare to challenge!! Thousands and thousands of words! Are touched! Life comes once!And the song is super good, and now when the music starts, it makes goose bumps all over my body.
The story of courage and growth, even after many years, even in different times, can still make people feel Simba is in the twists and turns of life set foot on the road to become king!
One of the best animated movie ever. Is and will forever be a classic masterpiece. Hakuna Matata
Great sounstrack, great voices, great animation. everything around the lion king is magical and nostalgic, it never loses its luster.
This movie is too good for my eyes, i almost can not watch it because of its good level.
Little Lion Simba has encountered many hardships and setbacks, and in the company of friends, experienced the most glorious moment in life, but also encountered the most difficult challenges, and finally became the king of the forest. In fact, sometimes it's just meant to be. You see, his uncle Scar is just because he wants to get rid of Simba, so Simba has encountered a lot of hardships or can be said to be tests. But because of this, let the little lion king grow quickly, become brave and strong, better become the commanding Lion King. Maybe I didn't think so much when I was young, but now it seems that it contains a lot of profound meaning in. All in all, the Lion King is a classic.
Beautiful film.'The Lion King' is rightly regarded as one of Disney's best. It isn't my favourite animated film from them, but definitely wraps up my top five from the studio. I have zero negatives to note, it's all fantastic.There are a tonne of brilliant characters. James Earl Jones steals the headlines as Mufasa, adding a huge amount. Simba (Matthew Broderick) is also great, but there are many more like Scar (Jeremy Irons), Timon (Nathan Lane), Pumbaa (Ernie Sabella), Rafiki (Robert Guillaume), Shenzi (Whoopi Goldberg), Banzai (Cheech Marin) and Zazu (Rowan Atkinson). A pretty incredible list.The premise is heartwarming, even with that famous scene early on. It's a cracking coming-of-age tale, one that is told very well. The music is outstanding, with Elton John and Tim Rice creating tracks like 'Circle of Life', 'Hakuna Matata' and 'Can You Feel the Love Tonight'.The animation is also unbelievably good. I genuinely don't have a bad word to say about this 1994 production. Each time I refresh my memory of this it makes the 2019 remake look even more pointless, even if the animation there is greater.I will say, and this is only a personal feeling, this doesn't have amazing rewatchability. Not in a poor way, I just love a few other Disney films that are a little more enjoyable to watch on a regular basis. Again, it isn't a notable fault of the film - it's just something that separates it from my other favourites, that's all.I'm sure the vast majority have, but if you haven't seen this yet then what are you waiting for? A must-watch, no question.
Father teach us to be brave fatheer teach how to love
This was my favourite Disney movie as kid and it's still enjoyable to watch as an adult. Looking forward to seeing the live action film.
While the storyline may be taken from other sources, the movie stands apart. Classic that is for all ages and never gets old watching. Music is wonderful even winning two Oscars for achievement in music. Enough humor to cut through some of the more serious parts of the movie.
The classics are called classics because it cannot be copied, and the Lion King is such a classic. Every detail of it is so outstanding, every music is so beautiful, it has just the right funny and consistent touch. This kind of film will not be outdated no matter when it is put, because it is a legend in itself.
As the protagonist, Simba is naughty by nature, but in the future, he has brought tremendous changes to his body and mind. He was deceived and hatred by his uncle's scars in childhood because he was simple and not aware of his complicated ambitions, and he wandered on the charge of 'killing his father'; when the body and mind were tired, the coming of friendship gave him new hope and vitality. Under the unraveling with Ding Man and Peng Peng, I realized the joy of life and the preciousness of friendship; and when I met again with my childhood companion Nana, I became brave and mature after learning the evil deeds of my uncle's scars; In the decisive battle, the king's style is more reflected... In all these experiences, I seem to have seen myself. From simple childishness to mature self-confidence, the things I experienced have the same things. If people are not deceived, they cannot understand the anger of being deceived; if they do not experience the hardships of wandering, how can they know the preciousness of the warmth brought by friendship; if they do not experience the struggle of fate, who can prove their potential ability? I can naturally resonate with his life. Maybe what life needs is such a little setback and bumps in growth. Only in this way can we understand the importance of growth and the special meaning of life.
The story of courage and growth, even after many years, even if born in different times, can still make people feel. Simba is in the twists and turns of life out of the road to become king! .
I love The Lion King! From the time I was a little girl, I would always watch this movie and think that the characters have such a strong bond with each other.
'Where the sun can shine, it is our territory' anytime, anywhere, and a hundred times, will be moved as the original classic.
Great songs and musical score. Like all great movies, the sum of it's parts make it greater that it's whole. Great characterizations by amazing voice actors. Terrific story-line, although shamelessly borrowed from several literary sources, including Shakespeare! A truly disturbing death scene when Mufasa, the Lion King, dies. (Shades of Bambi!) Tim Rice and Elton John wrote very memorable songs, indeed. Classic intricately detailed ink-and-paint 2D animation at it's best. James Earl Jones in one of his best roles ever. Probably not recommend for very young children due to a few intense scenes, although mixed in with much humor and majesty. Whoopie Goldberg steals the scene (like she does in most of her movies) as a very outspoken hyena. Just wonderful.
Disney's classic, it seems that in a short period of time, a very fulfilling story about fatherhood, about growth, about courage and so on. Childhood memories, at that time after watching the most afraid of animals is hyenas, dark eyes and cries, groups of out. 'The Lion King' was shot according to the content of Hamlet's Prince Avengers, but Simba's ending was much better than Hamlet's. He finally gained affection, love and friendship and was bathed in sunshine.
All the places that the sun can shine on are our land. 'If you look at it at any time, one hundred times, you will be touched by the original classics
The Lion King is much more than a children's film. The story line is centered around Simba finding himself and facing his past. Every scene in the movie is magical. Each character, no matter how big or small will leave an impression on you.They are well developed and grow with the movie, right from the main ones to the smallest ones. Hans Zimmer has created magic with the music, as has Sir Elton John. The movie will make you laugh, cry, WEEP, laugh again and leave you feeling fulfilled after seeing it. Plus it has some awesome life lessons that apply to literally everyone at every age. Not watching it is a disgrace to the universe, and more importantly to yourself.
My father and Simba still moved me. Every king who dies will become a star in the sky. When you are lonely, look up to the sky and I will look at you. Simba's growing and mature responsibilities are brave and fearless. And Pumbaa and Timon, and shazu and Nana. Childhood feelings, very good,. Finally, the visual and sound effects are greatly praised.
The lion king is a film that can accompany the growth of people. It brings a deep and lasting aftertaste. The first time I saw it, I cried twice, once when mufasa died and simba cried out in despair, and once when simba stood on the rock of glory at the end of the film and everything came back to life. The story is set in the African savannah full of vitality. The magnificent savannah has set off the profound themes of love, responsibility, growth and life cycle into a grand epic, showing a new and magnificent world and making us experience the life touched by love and adventure. This connotation transcends any culture or country, because human beings cannot change the laws of nature, and love is the emotion that human beings always pursue. The reason why this is a film with people growing up is that we can see our own growth from it. Just like the hero simba, he was carefree, naughty and brave in his childhood, and sang 'I will be lion king' with his head held high.
This movie is great source to teach human about the importance of wild animals and the pain with which they are suffering from.
We should learn many thing from this movie. And we should implement in our daily life.
A great movie .the first cartin movie i watched .sharked me
This is a epic animation. Is awesome. Wonderful. Beautiful
This is peak Disney. All other Disney films since are measured by how they compare to this one, and so far nothing Disney has done has come particularly close. The only other animated films of the last 30 years that deserve a seat at the table with this behemoth is Studio Ghibli's 'Spirited Away' and Pixar's 'Toy Story', with The Lion King still being the best of the three.
What puts this film above all others is its engagement factor--there isn't an age group that won't be just as entertained and intrigued by this film as another. It's heart-wrenching, hilarious, romantic, exciting, dramatic and at times even a bit scary. It never hits a lull, and--so far--never gets old. This film is, by every measure, a masterpiece.
In addition to telling us to be courageous and responsible, this movie will heartily lament that Xiao Simba is actually very lucky when he sees Dingman, Peng Peng and Simba together.
Things I like about this movie:Matthew Broderick's performance as the voice of Adult Simba.Jeremy Irons's performance as the voice of Scar, Simba's uncle who becomes the main villain.Rowan Atkinson's performance as the voice of Zazu.James Earl Jones's performance as the voice of Mufasa.Nathan Lane's performance as the voice of Timon.The film's title logo was shown both at the start of the film and when the film ends.Simba vs Scar scene.The song Can You Feel The Love Tonight by Elton John.The song Circle of Life by Elton John.Hakuna Matata scene, especially when Pumbaa, Timon, and Simba eat the bugs.I Just Can't Wait to Be King song scene.Argument between Simba and Nala.
The movie is loveable, the songs are catchy and the voice acting has finesse, the movie is very vanilla however and is unimpressive cinematically.
That is sooooooooooooooooooo cool i think its my favourite movie
When the film started, the music sounded, and the grand opening continued, and a sense of solemnity emerged. This is the opening of the most powerful animation I have ever seen.
This movie is the most serious work produced by Disney Animation. It is an animated version of 'Hamlet'. It is a very meaningful animation that children and adults should watch with heart. Family, friendship, love, and affection are touching; equality, discrimination, slavery, resistance, and terrification; birth, death, happiness, sadness, and rebirth. Coupled with the perfect style of painting, highly infectious soundtrack, and the director's balance of seriousness and humor in the plot, it has become a milestone in the history of animation, the king of classics.
I grew up watching Disney animation and grew up. In the future, I will also see bald heads and review every classic with grandchildren.
Very good movie. i like i love it my kids love it evrybody loves it.
From the life lessons to the ethereal animation, this movie does almost nothing wrong. The moving and emotionally-charged music, the whimsical yet striking imagery, the impeccable jokes and comedic timing, the romance, the tragic moments, the joyful childhood, the setting, the darker aspects, the expressions and line deliveries of every single character. It seems almost unimaginable that in 10 years that the 90s lasted, Walt Disney Animation brought not only the best animated movies of their repertoire but also the best ever made in the industry.It's no wonder why, to many, it's the quintessential Disney movie, the one to praise the most. However, it's unfortunately tainted by a truth that prevents it from being a 10 out of 10 starred movie: Kimba, the White Lion. Yes, the emotional weight of the story is different, yes the traits of the characters are different, yes the music and tone are different... But unfortunately one of the aspects that mold or serve as basis in an animated picture (and any movie for that matter, but animated films more than most given it's inexistent and it's literally brought to live stories) is the visual cues, character designs and overall aesthetic of the setting of the story.Granted, the setting and the themes are toned up and further improved in the Disney adaptation but it's that small splinter of imagery copied from another animated feature found in character designs and some of the shots that haunts me to this day. I wished I had never known of it, I wish I lived in ignorance and oblivious to that fact, but my eyes have been opened. And so far the only small bothering aspect of Disney movies I've ever had since I was a kid was that finding out later on that all were adaptations of books, novels or fairy tales; brought me inspirationally down. Now they have taken a more original route and I'm glad they have. Moreover, I'm not saying adaptations are wrong, quite the contrary, the interpretations done by Disney were so original, outstandingly well-crafted, captured, sang and written that they inspired me to read the original materials. I commend Disney for succeeding on bring light to those stories of old, dusty and generally considered outdated. They might be overused, but every once in a while we need stories of knights, princesses, castles and dragons.And the Lion King might be telling a well-known story, but it isn't formulaic in the slightest. It tells it with a fresh take and a different setting that brings those themes to life in striking animation and visceral storytelling. From the quite, meditating almost mystical moments with the wise Rafiki, to the joyful careless life-style of Timon and Pumba, Simba is a lion haunted by his past and we feel for him as we have at some point in our lives felt the same way. Disney movie speak to us through its characters, these animals feel like people not because they are animated like such but because what they feel and say are also human emotions. There was no need to tell this story through animals, but by doing so the themes reach the younger audience and adults are witnessing it through a refreshing new setting that has room to add interesting twists on the plot, funny comedy and engaging new characterisations.IN CONCLUSION, there are tons of reviews out there that both nitpick and go through every single good aspect of it, I just wanted to tell my reasons to not give it a 10/10 but also clarify that I love 90s Disney movies, and the Lion King will be one of my favorites forever. I'll show my kids and hopefully they'll show theirs. I trully believe traditional animation won't ever be outdated as long as movies like these were made. Thank you, Disney.
What 3D reproductions and special screenings are actually just a means for Disney to return to the old film after 17 years
A breakthrough for Disney, this animated film is set in Africa and the main character is a prince instead of a princess, who is tricked into thinking he killed his father and flees into exile. The music is a collaboration between Elton John and Tim Rice and yielded, among other good songs, 'Circle of Life.'
Amazing movie and very emaculsnt for children they will eat this movie like dinner
The Lion King is a great film. Along with a great story (inspired by William Shakespeare's Hamlet), terrific animation, and an all star cast of voices, there are the lessons that are learned from this film (despite being a little rough for the younger children). Like responsibility and honor.I rank this animated film among the great films I have ever seen. It was part of my childhood and it is a film experience I will never forget. And hopefully, you won't either. A++
The movie is wonderful and full of emotion. A visionary triumph filled me with that Disney magic.
This is easily the bst lion king of the two its not even a question! smh at the new one which was the same pretty much shot for shot but worst. this is a classic and dont f with the classics!!!!!!!!!!!!! Timon and Pumba nala scar etc all so funny.
The film is such a heart-warming story. The movie is about a young lion named simba, who is tricked into thinking he is responsible for his father's death, and then leaves the pride with guilt and goes off on his own. He grows up alone, but on the way he meets a lifelong friend who has its funny moments, its action, and it's really the perfect movie for kids. For adults, the acting was great, the story was good, and it was predictable, but not when I was a kid. So it's a warm movie
This film can entertain everyone young or old, this movie film is very interesting and a real deal film.thia is one of animated movie.The animated is top notch and flawless.This is a standout film
The whole process of the film is easy, the whole process is like a comedy, but the character of Simba, but let me see an adult world-compete for power and profit. At that time, I was thinking in my heart, what kind of person would I be if I leave my parents and my hometown after that? Am I going to be that little lion?Now when I grow up, I understand that everyone has their own emotions in their lives. It's just that we will be aware of ourselves consciously, and better use our emotions to develop our advantages. When Simba saw Mufasa leaving, he was desperate, and he roared loudly, 'No'. Such scenes made me cry, and I really felt that my mother was so great. Later, I realized that between children and parents is responsible for each other 's lives. Raising children is a responsibility and life experience, not deliberate. If you want your child to repay yourself, you should not impose your unfulfilled life aspirations on the child. More should be to let go, and let go more and more every day until you can only see his back.Looking at 'The Lion King' again, what I saw is no longer the same. When I saw Xiao Simba, I always thought that I had killed my father. When facing this pain, he chose to use the method that everyone would use-escape . I don't want to start in front of others. I have to suffer every time I have to go through it. This may be the way most of us deal with problems in reality. When faced with a problem, I want to avoid it, instead of thinking about the result I want, and what can I do to solve the problem.Choosing to escape will only become an unfinished experience. Pain will live in your body forever. When you touch it, it will hurt. We can only truly face our unfinished experience, discover it, and experience it. Will really take away such pain.No matter when, what we need to do is to face all the problems bravely, accept everything happening, live a good life every day, look forward, no matter whether your past is good or bad, the achievements are today 's you, that You want to be you in the future.To borrow the most classic passage from 'The Lion King': Some people live to the age of 75 but never stop at the age of 25; some people play countless ways of life, some people copy the same day countless times. Therefore, growth and suffering should bring 'results', not 'consequences'.
'The lion king' is a film that can accompany people to grow up, it brings people moved, the aftertaste is deep and long. The first time I saw it as a child, I cried twice. Once was mufasa's death, simba's desperate cry, and once was simba's standing on the rock of glory at the end of the film, and everything came back to life. Of course, I may have been fascinated by those vivid images when I was a child. However, as I grew older and reviewed for many times, I found that the lion king not only brought me rich sound and color, but also deeply shocked my soul. The story is set on the African savannah full of vitality. The magnificent savannah sets off the profound themes of love, responsibility, growth and life cycle into a grand epic, showing a new and magnificent world, and letting us experience the life of love and adventure. This connotation transcends any culture or country, because human beings cannot change the laws of nature, and love is the emotion that human beings always pursue.
The Lion King was pretty much my favourite movie growing up. It was one of those movies I probably watched dozens of times between the age of 2 and 6, so much so I probably had the entire film committed to memory at some point. So I definitely had fond memories of it, and still felt a great deal of emotional attachment towards the film, but for a while I started thinking- is the movie actually any good? Or was it just overwhelming nostalgia telling me that the movie was better than it really is in cold, cynical, objective reality?I went and watched the film when it was re-released in cinemas back in 2011- in 3D, of course, which was resoundingly 'meh,' but the whole gimmicky 3D stuff didn't even matter. I was getting to see one of my most fondly remembered childhood films on the big screen, and it was kinda exciting. Of course, the excitement could have led me to be massively let down when viewing the film as an older and (slightly) more mature individual, but thankfully, to my relief, the movie was awesome. I enjoyed it just as much at 17 as I had enjoyed it at 4, and came to realise that the movie was indeed a great one. Nostalgia may have helped a bit, but I still think from a more objective standpoint this is a damn great film- almost certainly my favourite animated movie of all time.Of course it's hard to pick a favourite animation film in a universe where Pixar exists. My pick for my favourite animation film could easily go to almost any of Pixar's masterpieces, but I guess I just feel a bit more connected to The Lion King. There's definitely something very special about it, but it's all a bit tough to put into words.I guess all I can really say is that it's a movie that's just fundamentally effective. Does that make sense? I don't know. There's just so many good components of this movie, and they all come together so well to deliver an extremely satisfying experience.For starters, the story is a fantastic one, dealing with themes of fate, death, pride, betrayal, and other things you don't usually see in a kid's film. The film can get pretty dark at times, but thankfully never to an overwhelming extent, because this does have to be child accessible after all. And I'm also thankful for the fact this movie's not all doom and gloom because it allows for some great humour. I still think Timon and Pumba are a hilarious duo- if you told me you thought they were annoying as hell, I wouldn't argue, but for some reason they never got on my nerves and I found them hysterical. Oh, and Rowan Atkinson as the frequently abused bird servant Zazu is fantastic.That's another thing worth mentioning- the voice acting. It's great across the board, and serious props has to go to whoever helped cast this movie, as there were some incredibly great choices here. Jeremy Irons, James Earl Jones... even Matthew Broderick is perfectly suited to his character.The animation and the overall look of the film is brilliant too. There's so much colour in this movie, and it really didn't need a gimmicky 3D conversion for one to become completely immersed in the film's world.And yeah, the music needs a mention too. I know everybody loves all the really memorable songs from the movie, and I imagine I'm not the only person who will never forget the particularly catchy ones (I'm looking at you 'I just can't wait to be king'), but I think more credit needs to go to Hans Zimmer's brilliant score. Zimmer is maybe one of the most praised composers still working today, and while I often find his music works very well with the movies he writes it for, the pieces of music themselves are usually kind of underwhelming to listen to by themselves. However, his score for The Lion King I think is absolutely brilliant, and I also believe his instrumental stuff is just as good as the undeniably catchy and more well-known Elton John songs.So, just watch this movie. You don't need to be a kid to enjoy it. Who says animated films are only for kids anyways?
1.Everything you see exists together in a delicate balance.
2.Im only brave when I have to be. Being brave doesnt mean you go looking for trouble.
3.Yes, the past can hurt. But I think you can either run from it or learn from it.
4.This is my kingdom. If I dont fight for it, who will?
The classics are called classics because he ca n't copy them. The Lion King is such a classic. Every detail is so good, every music is so beautiful, just funny and consistent. This kind of film will not fall behind no matter when it is put in, because he is a legend
It have been released for twenty years,I don't know how many times I have seen it. Every character is portrayed in a profound way. Even now, the grand picture and shocking music are still in my mind when simba was born.
'The Lion King' is one of the greatest animated films ever made thanks to many important elements. First of all the characters are memorable even if they appear for a short time. Then the plot is interesting and it is about the circle of life: life and death but also generosity opposed to selfishness. All of this is possible through an impeccable animation and a great music (both the score and the original songs). I think that almost everyone has watched it at least once, if not where had you lived? Jokes aside, 'The Lion King' has been a cultural phenomenon for a reason, it's very very good.
Twenty five years ago, the cartoon was already a classic, and the musical version reached a new high. I didn't expect that CG version could make new ideas and surprises. On the one hand, technology is invincible. It glorifies the beauty of the mainland and the liveliness of all kinds of animals. As soon as Little Simba comes out, the girls behind him all make a cute voice. But more importantly, from the beginning of circle of life, to the death of Mufasa, and then to the final war, even though the whole story has been familiar to the heart, the mood can still be mobilized from the beginning to the end.
I love Mulan! It has intense moments, great comedic timing, romance, music, and heart-warming moments. What more could you ask for? I laughed a lot and sung all the songs. And that scene where she cuts her hair has to be one of my all time favorite scenes!To this day it's still one of the best Disney movies!
Even as an adult, older and older, more nihilistic and politically-nautious, I could still easily rewatch this.
This movie is amazing. The music is great, the family relationships and characters are well developed, and the villain, while a bit ambiguous, provides for an entertaining plot. It's a bit darker than your typical movies, and the romance is spotty to say the least, but the consistent message of female empowerment shines through. This movie is great for girls of any age!
Plot:To save her father from death in the army, a young maiden secretly goes in his place and becomes one of China's greatest heroines in the process.Analysis:Disney princesses have always been an inspiration for children -especially girls- and they left their mark on animated cinema. Out of all of them if I had to pick one that I consider her to be the best role-model I would choose Mulan without any doubt. Her powerfull yet sweet character maintains a beautiful balance between a cute girl that is charming and feminine and a dynamic woman who can fight and think equally or even better than any man, it's a healthy projection of women and the movie definetely achieved its goals as it remains a fan favourite even now.The screenplay is perfectly structured to give a proper introduction to society's customs of that age and how people were normalizing the sexism. It was definetely very frightening as a subject because it could easily turn to 'All men are pigs, women are better' stuff but it actually didn't. Mulan isn't some warrior who outpowers all men and makes them look like fools, it's a girl who is strong like them, she can fight like them and deserves to be respected as a human being not treated as male property, as every woman and every girl who watches this film and learns what is her place in society (side by side with men and equally respected), perfect and satisfying equality through a well-written movie.The star of the film is obviously Mulan but the one who steals the show is actually Mushu. He is very funny, his lines are amazing, his interractions with everyone are beyond description and this was some fantastic job from the writing team that created a side-kick that no one can resist. Eddie Murphy encaptures all the magic of Mushu's character and gives an amazing performance, one of Disney's funniest for sure.The last factor I would say played a major part in this film's success is the music. Not just the good songs that fit this movie perfectly but also the nice score that helps every moment to be more magical, it's quite touching and musically pleasing to watch Mulan as it manages to produce catchy tunes and beautiful melodies to elevate your experience.The only thing that was kinda questionable for me is a certain part of the artwork. I love the old Disney look and many of my favourite movies share this with Mulan but there are a few misses in this particular film. Although, I love the design of the environment and most of the things look quite lovely, I am not a fan of the character design, most of them are oddly shaped even those who aren't supposed to, it feels a little bit too distracting for me, it's not enough to ruin this great movie for me, it's what I would like to be a little bit different to really love this.There is also a slight disappointment in the last battle, there are good elements that include every major character but I just can't find it entertaining enough to be excited. The conclusion is pretty good and I would call it pleasing but the battle is just my least favourite part of the film.Conclusion:Despite some minor flaws, Mulan is a very good movie, a princess that is healthy role model for children, a more dynamic main character that makes the whole movie way more interesting. It's a Disney classic and belongs among those who will be loved and respected by many generations, it maybe didn't reach the Lion King of Toy Story in terms of quality but it's still a great, visionary piece of art that gave us healthy feminist messages in 1998, a truly insane achievement.Rating: 8/10.
This is the best movie that I remember from childhood, I watched this sooo many times. The story line is so good. So touching. Definately my top 10 favorite movie.
There's a reason why Mulan has grown I. Popularity over time and it's cause it holds up not like some other Disney films. The plot is great for young and old and the songs are great. This is one of my all time fav Disney films.
In the wake of MeToo and Feminism movement there are a lot of movie that show strong women. But most of the time these movie fall flat and became laughing stock. This movie does much better than other in term of showing strong independent woman.Mulan isn't strong physically. Yes she can kick ass, but what makes her special is her sharp mind. She doesn't have to show masculinity to be tough. She could be still feminine and beat the hell out of the villain.For me this is my number one Disney movie
Arguably Disney's best animated feature, at least it might be for me. I've watched this so many times and I really cant think of any flaws. Underdog main character, comedic sidekick, a terrifying villain, outstanding music, and one of the best training montages ever. Simple as that.
I might feel nostalgic for Mulan or A Bug's Life because they premiered the year when I was born, but that could just be a special coincidence, and I really like them because I am moved by their message and realize they do not get enough attention like other Disney or Pixar films around their time. Fa Mulan was terrific for sneaking into the war against Shan Yu and pretending to be a man to prove women can fight equally as well as the men. Ming-Na Wen, BD Wong, Eddie Murphy, James Hong, Miguel Ferrer, June Foray and many others brought their A-game for voice acting. If you liked Fa Mulan, you should check out her daughter Lonnie in the Descendants trilogy, particularly in the second movie. Since the Descendants films are live-action despite being based on animated Disney, and Ming-Na Wen was also a great live actress in Agents of SHIELD, I believe Ming-Na Wen herself would be a much better live-action Mulan than who actually played Mulan in the live-action remake. It really helps more that Ming-Na Wen is old enough to be Dianne Doan's mom, and Dianne views her as a motherly figure because she enjoyed Mulan as a kid. Another big reason why I admire Mulan is because the film writers at Disney did a much better job with Chinese culture here than when The Aristocats had a Chinese cat play a piano with chopsticks.
Mulan explores themes of honour and loyalty and presents them extremely well. The characters are all really likeable and the comic reliefs are never too annoying. The comedic timing is also perfect and provides some great laughs. Mulan is an amazing character, coming from a simple farm girl to a warrior who single-handedly takes down an entire enemy army. The whole movie is very inspirational, and has some very dark moments. It's one that I've watched multiple times, with more times to come.
I liked the movie as a cartoon for kids, but prefered the 2020 movie story.
Great, ambitious film done by Disney . Each minute of this film is unforgettable for true Disney fans.
Musical, adventure, drama, comedy. Do you remember, dear viewers, that in ancient times, when mammoths still walked the earth, Disney studio was associated with the words 'quality', 'humor' and 'great pastime for the whole family', where viewers of all ages will find for themselves what something close to his heart? Yes, my dear old men, there was a time! This is now Disney mired in such a brown substance with its subpoena and openly careless attitude to business that it earned me the nickname 'Evil Corporation'. But let's not talk about the sad, and therefore - let us remember today one of the well-deserved masterpieces of my childhood, which I can revisit an infinite number of times - and again have pleasure, as in the very first. I don't remember the circumstances of the first viewing, but it was definitely in childhood. And here is my brief opinion - Honored Masterpiece of the Corporation of Evil. In this review we will consider the expressive advantages of this cartoon, because, firstly, I don't want to talk about the shortcomings here, and secondly, they are insignificant here, and the word 'absolutely' does not affect the general perception. Now, let your humble servant dwell on the merits in more detail.
So, here they are:
1. Told Story - this musical, intertwined with several genres, tells the story of a brave girl Mulan - a character from a Chinese legend (about the reality and fiction of which is still debated), who went to war instead of her elderly father. And everything would be fine, but if the deception is revealed, then death and shame for the whole family awaits her. Of course, the story is retold with a Disney touch of talking animals and is filled with songs and humor. I also note that Mulan is shown as a strong and courageous girl who took such a step to save her father. At the same time, she remained a wonderful girl, very emotional. I fell in love with this heroine, and empathized with her throughout the cartoon, absolutely in any situation. A strong heroine who is loved by boys and who has been admired by a girl for more than one generation. And do not care, as it was in the legend, because it is very similar to the truth.
2. Animation - I definitely indicate this item in cartoons with classic 2D animation, since 3D is already frankly enough, not to say even worse. Characters, environments, backdrops - everything looks amazingly beautiful and does not age. I assure you, and in a hundred years, this animation will delight a new generation of viewers and bewitch with its beauty.
3. Chinese entourage - since the legend of Mulan is Chinese, the creators tried to immerse the audience in this era, applying a minimum of details, but strengthening the emphasis on being of that time (strictly patriarchal). And they succeeded. I literally ended up in Ancient China, threatened by nomadic tribes from the north. Clothes, design, music - all this perfectly conveyed the entourage.
4. Songs - I estimate them according to the Russian version, because I did not watch the cartoon in the original. But I know that the Corporation of Evil is very vigilant about the localization of its products in different countries, and knowing the experience of the Russian branch, you can not worry about the quality, because the translation is not verbal, but it perfectly fits the motive and meaning of the songs. The songs themselves turned out to be strong and emotional, and even touching, funny, and so on. Plus, the dubbing actors obviously tried, and in their voices you can hear the whole gamut of feelings that a person is capable of. Bravo!
5. Images - fear of the enemy, the ominous image of a strong enemy, the monstrous consequences of a bloody battle and much more - the creators of the cartoon managed, in the absence of blood or scenes of a cruel slaughter (after all, a cartoon for family viewing), to convey all this through the images, actions of the characters. Using a minimum of details, the creators were able to demonstrate and make us feel emotions, including fear for China and the heroes.
6. Humor - Evil Corp would not be Evil Corp if there was no humor in their cartoons. And he is here, there is a lot of him, and he is amazing. In some moments you experience a real 'Spanish shame' for the heroes doing such that at least stand still fall. The lion's share of humor is formed here by the dragon Mushu - my favorite. Of course, some jokes were adapted to Russian realities (naturally in dubbing), and this added points to the cartoon from the viewer in the CIS and the former USSR.
7. Characters - each is worked out and interesting, both first and second plan, from a soldier to the Emperor himself. But Mushu takes a separate place. For without him it would be definitely boring, I assure you. Mushu is a cartoonish loser-merry fellow who hooks the audience from the very first appearance in the frame and does not let go until the very final credits.
A little about the main characters:
1. Fa Mulan is an ordinary girl who, in a difficult time for the country and family, committed a daring and deadly act - disguised as a man and went to war. An awkward, daring, strong and courageous girl. A real warrior maiden. Who did not become a radical feminist, but remained a woman capable of feelings and excessive emotionality. She will be admired by both boys and girls. A worthy image of a strong girl who evokes sympathy from start to finish.
2. Mushu - a dragon, the keeper of the family, who went to help Mulan in order to help her cope with an impossible task. A treasure trove of humor and a source of endless laughter. The classic loser who gets the chance to make something memorable and benefit. In the original, he is voiced by Eddie Murphy himself, but in Russian dubbing he speaks in the voice of Valery Kukharyoshin, whose voice will always remain with me.
3. Li Shang is the commander of the recruits, in whose ranks Mulan has arrived. I must make from yesterday's peasants a combat-ready army, which must defeat the invaders who attacked China. He shows himself as a skillful mentor and a courageous commander who knows how to make decisions in difficult situations. Well, the romance has not gone anywhere. It looks appropriate and evokes emotion and joy.
There are still many heroes that deserve mention, but if I list them all, I will ruin the viewing for those unfortunate people who have not yet watched this wonderful cartoon.
Of course, there are some comments, but they, I repeat, are insignificant and do not affect the overall impression. Let's call them small shoals that are inevitable when working on an animated film.
This masterpiece has a sequel to 'Mulan 2', but it is frankly weak, and keeps only on Mushu's humor, but even it is better than that squalor called 'Mulan' 2020, which I don't even want to talk about, otherwise the pressure will jump up and you will have to drink funny pills ... Therefore, let's imagine that the story of the brave warrior Mulan ended in this cartoon with a predictable and well-deserved ending.
As a result, we have a real masterpiece of the Corporation of Evil about the brave girl Mulan, with an excellent script, great surroundings, great humor, catchy characters, great songs and stunning animation.
My rating is 10 out of 10 and my recommendation for viewing!
Love watching this with my daughter's. One of Disney's best. Very fun and exciting for a animation film.
Lately, I have been watching more and more Disney classics, with a marathon coming up soon. This is the first time I've watched Mulan, and I can't help but be extremely excited about it. It follows the classic hero journey, but with enough flair, humour, and girl power that I could not not fall in love with it. Especially Eddie Murphie as the voice of Mushu is hilarious. The Disney classics might not be the most narratively intriguing films, but oh my, are they entertaining.
Mulan...so much bravery and courage in this name.
As for me Mulan is one of the best Disney's movie and I can explain why :)
1. The Plot. Watching this animated movie we get a real combo: travelling to China, history points, relationship and respect in Oriental culture. We have an opportunity to get closer to the idea of ancestry's veneration, a guardian spirit of a family, women's position in society etc. So, from this prospective Mulan is quite informative.
2. The cartoon is absolutely neutral and can be highly appreciated by any age and gender. It's cute but not too romantic; it's funny but not cheesy.
3. The Characters. They are awesome here. Decisive Mulan, role-model Li Shang, fussy Mushu, jolly Granny and etc. It's extremely difficult not to take a great fancy to them, as all of them have nice personality and life values (except Shan Yu and his co., definitely)
4. The Songs. They are amazing here, with nice lyrics covered with a light flavour of oriental melodies.To recap, 'Mulan' is worth watching as it can inspire you, push you to call your parents a bit oftener and just help you feel revitalised in the presence of a vivacious soul of your personal dragon.
There's a lot to recommend about this film. It's animation style is a lot more Eastern-Chinese-than most of the Disney canon. There's a lyrical beauty to much of the vestas and characters. Likewise, the story-being concerned with honor, duty-is quite different from much of the Disney films. The film really tries to escape the Disney mold. The songs have less narrative weight placed on them. And the story is more complex than say Sleeping Beauty.Yet this came out at the tail end of the Disney Renaissance and it has a lot of the same tropes, abet better deployed than most animated films. Mulan has not one but two animals friends in cricket and her horse. Mushu-a wonderful, engaging character generally-is very much in the Genii mold of comedic sidekick. I wish the directors were given a freer hand by the studio.
Classic Disney. Why bother remake this great story, and remake it bad ?This animated movie has everything : characters, story, music, fun, action...Golden age Disney. The one we'll never get back.
I was eager to see the new film, as well as I was anxious to whether it would hold up to the original film. But I enjoye it. Even though the animation (some places) could have been better, the storyline is new and intriguing. I was moved several times, and will watch it again.
So the 2020 Live Action version of Mulan hits Disney+ at no extra charge tomorrow and because I am cheap I haven't watched it yet so I thought I would watch the original animated film and here is my review for it. The premise of sees a young Woman attempt to save her Father from dying in the military by taking his place secretly by pretending to be a man.Main Character
So obviously Mulan is the main character and for those that criticise Disney's animated films back in the 90s of not portraying strong female characters then go back and watch Mulan as this is a fantastically strong character. It only came to my attention today that the fantastic Ming-Na Wen who I know from Agents Of Shield and The Mandalorian voices Mulan and she is a perfect fit for the role, she is known for her action prowess and she just really fits into the character of Mulan.Supporting Characters
There is a good group of characters that Mulan allies with in the film, the main one being Mushu played by Eddie Murphy and he is great and adds plenty of life and energy to the film. I mean it is funny that his voice role here is basically the same as when he voices Donkey in the Shrek films, but it does work here and as I said adds plenty of life to a film that needs it. BD Wong plays Shang her Captain in the army and I thought he voiced the character well and I thought his character fit well with Mulan's story and I thought their dynamic was a highlight of the film. The characters in the army are fine and are good with Mulan, but you can't help but see the stereotypes and generic nature of them kind of makes them a bit paper thin. But when you get to Paper thin we get to the villain of this film, I mean these animated films have great villains such as Scar, Jafar & Ursula but this guy is just really generic, he is a Hun and just wants to take over China. We are not given any interesting and thought provoking reason, he is just a bad guy for the sake of the film having a bad guy which does hurt the film a bit.Story
The story is good, it does a great job showing its main protagonist in a great light and making you care about Mulan and wanting to see her succeed and it does that in an appropriate way, the story also doesn't shy away from some pretty sexist moments and I think it makes Mulan's story better that the film doesn't hide from that. But I feel like this film maybe has an overly simple story, compared to other Disney films I felt like this film had the potential to have more shades of grey in it, like I said the bad guy is just simply a bad guy and I think there could have been more done there, especially when you consider some of the attitudes of the Chinese empire that are pretty bad in this film.Script
The script is really good, you have to remember that this is meant to be a family film so it has some of that family humour but it feels appropriate and the film knows when to have its dramatic moments and it is effective in doing so.Style
This film looks fantastic, back in the 80's and 90's Disney had great looking animated films but this one is right up there, it looks stunning and the Chinese backdrop really adds to it and the style of the film. For a family film it does have some exciting moments and some darker moments which sells its war like feeling. It is a really short film barely clocking at 90 mins but that is part of its charm, you can turn it on and watch this quickly and feel like a complete story has been told in the time that is given.Overall
Overall, this is a great animated film that maybe is a bit underrated. I feel like when people mention the great Disney animated film Mulan is never mentioned and I am not saying it is as good as The Lion King or anything but I think it is a really great film that deserves to be watched.
Independent, intelligent, responsible, hardworking, resilient, and honorable female character in the most patriarchal and conservative environment. The story development is perfectly knit for the main character to shine and mature into a hero who saves the world. Mulan is different from previous Disney princess because she is inspiring and telling girls to become a better person herself rather than finding the right prince. She fights against system rather while others fight against a villain. The scene where people kneel from the front row to back and the emperor bows have endured long in my memory and motivated to work harder throughout my life. It was that memorable.
I LOVED IT SO MUCH.
'DISHONOUR ON YOU, DISHONOUR ON YOUR COW'
Seven years after the creative, sparkling animated classic, Beauty and the Beast (1991) Disney appears to have produced a lazy, mostly unoriginal derivative full-featured animation movie. Many of the outdated cliches of comedic parody are interspersed with the typical musical routines and stereotypical gender roles even though Mulan supposedly is a strong feminine character. It's live action update by Disney released in 2020 offers up a much more vibrant and rightfully accomplished successor.
I watched these in the reverse order. I watched the live action 'Mulan' before watching the animated 'Mulan.' I think they were both good though I prefer the live action version. I think I would've preferred the original 'Mulan' had I seen it in 1998. This was a quaint story of tradition, the good of it and the bad of it, and a young girl bucking that tradition.
I really enjoyed Mulan, it gives you hope and it makes you feel like anything is impossible. And the female character is great, the storyline and how it turns in the end. I watched it doubled in Romanian but i don't think it makes a big difference:)
Mulan is one of those Disney movies that really slipped through the cracks in the sense that I knew it existed, but there was never any desire to watch it.Until today.Mulan is a fantastic film. It's beautifully animated with some gorgeous action sequences, the voice talent is spectacular, it's got some infectious ear-worms that are guaranteed to stick with you after the film has ended. It serves up comedy and heart in equal measure in true Disney fashion, as well.Mulan, for those who may not know, tells the story of a young woman who disguises herself as a man to fight in a war against the Huns in the place of her elderly father, looking to honor her family. It's not an 'ugly cry' kind of movie, but it's genuinely heart-warming. You want to see Mulan succeed and honor her family, and it builds to a rewarding conclusion.The only issue the film really has isn't the fault of the film at all, but rather of the lack of versatility in Eddie Murphy's voice and acting talents. It's hard to listen to much of Mushu without hearing Donkey from Shrek, and it ultimately takes away from the viewing experience. Sure, Eddie Murphy does the goofy, big-mouthed sidekick pretty well, but I think this film would've gone over much better for me with someone else in the role. Given what he would go on to do, it's too distracting and, while it's not a direct reflection on the quality of the movie, it is a reflection on the capabilities of the talent hired to do the film.It's disappointing that I'm only just now seeing Mulan, but I have absolutely no regrets in watching this film. It will most definitely be on my re-watch list going forward.
From my generation, I'd like to say one thing.
This is Disney!
I knew the main plot of the story and I felt the time before the main character go on her big adventure was very long. I wondered if it was OK to be so slow in only 87 minute films. But my afraid was unfounded. It looked like it was redundant at the beginning, but the whole thing was very well balanced. Each episode wasn't too elaborate. Rather, it looks like a shoddy job. But I think it was really an elaborate script. ... She did a great adventure that I felt at the last scene. The Chinese 2009 version of Mulan was also a masterpiece, and I thought this one was as good as that. I thought Zootopia was interesting and I like The Incredible Family. And even compared to those, I thought this Mulan was just as good. Other than Cinderella and Peter Pan and other works of yesteryear, maybe this is the best one.
10/10
excellent movie
I first saw this movie as a little kid, but I still enjoy it now that i'm 22. I consider this to be one of the first GOOD movies to come out of that greedy capitalist hellhole called Disney in years. Some of the arguments against it have been ridiculous.'It's racist!' Oh come on people, it's supposed to be and adventure/war movie, not a remake of Ghandi! The Huns are bad, the Chinese are good because that's how it was in the ancient legend. A movie like this is not supposed to put political correctness before entertainment.'It's discriminating against men!' Lighten up, please. I'm a guy and I wasn't offended by this. It's from Mulan's perspective, and I think it's safe to say she was somewhat prejudiced. Besides, Shang was cool. There was nothing wrong with him.'It's too violent!' I hate to break it to you, but war happens. Yes, there are fields of bodies. Yes, the bad guys kill people. Yes, it might scare little kids. But seriously, the evening news is way more violent. These things happen, and if your kids never know about it then they're going to be pretty freaked out when they first encounter the real world.In short, Mulan is a great movie for anybody who doesn't want they're kids to live in a bubble. It's got action, romance, friendship, the whole works, and would have been great even if it wasn't animated.
Warfare and gender politics (plus musical numbers and pet dragons) around imperial China in this Disney-fied adaptation of an old eastern fable. It's flashy and well-produced, with a strong female lead and up-front morals, but the plot seems too convenient and there's very little life outside the spotlight's bright glare. Funny, that last point, as Disney's always been so thorough about granting attention to the little details in their better preceding efforts.Mulan is just fine. The animation is fluid and smooth, a crisp blend of classic western style and traditional Chinese décor that brims with character while paying service to a stiffer, more respect-driven society. The plot, up-tempo but shallow, hits its important points and changes the scenery before younger minds have a chance to wander. Singing and dancing cartoons aren't really my thing, but the tunes in Mulan are aurally inoffensive, at least, and kept rather short and utilitarian. I didn't hate anything, really, but I also didn't love anything... it was all just there. Yep, that looks like a Disney movie. Yep, that's the bad guy. Yep, there's the cursory romance. I appreciate the envelope-pushing hinted by the premise, encouragement to challenge the status quo if you find it unjust, but the film's conviction to see that message through adversity seems shaky at best. Even Eddie Murphy's comic relief side character, the aforementioned cat-sized dragon, doesn't get much to do.The ideas are good, the animation is top-notch, the music is tolerable, but the big picture stuff is half-baked and the window-dressings are shockingly bland.
MulanWhat a joy this movie was, if there was a flaw it was merely the songs not being memorable enough.Brilliant
Mulan is one of my favourite films in the Disney animated canon. A movie which is rich in layers and characterisation topped with brilliant songs and great action, there's barely a single minute that doesn't leave me enthralled. The titular heroine herself is a unique specimen in the canon of female Disney protagonists. For one she actually has living parents and contrary to the likes of Belle or Ariel, Mulan is not a free spirit. She is a clumsy, unpunctual, clutz, and a bit of a tomboy who doesn't fit the gender norms society would have expected of her at the time as she tries to find her place in the world. She is also an adult who still possesses some childlike tendencies, perhaps most memorably and heart-warmingly when she unexpectedly hugs the Emperor of China. Mulan is also under the Disney princess brand even though she has no royal lineage? - Money talks.Mulan is one of many examples throughout history of women disguised as men in combat roles, albeit in the case of Hua Mulan being one of disputed historicity. For many western children, a film like this would be their first introduction to Chinese culture and history beyond what they would see in a Chinese takeaway. I'm not Chinese so I can't atone for well the film represents the culture. From a historical accuracy perspective, however, the film presents the Huns being a threat during the film's setting of 600AD (Tang Dynasty) when they were actually active several centuries prior to that. Likewise, fireworks and gun powder wouldn't come along until the 9th century (also Mulan's family owns a pet dog?). - Embrace it in a charmingly inaccurate Cecil B. DeMille way.Mulan is a classic heroes' journey as she begins the film within the familiarity of her village but soon has a call to adventure into the unknown, only to eventually return to her village, a transformed individual. Disney films often being at the ire of snooty left-wing academics due to their highly archetypal nature rooted in the conventions of storytelling which are often dismissed as passé and cliché formulas of storytelling in favour of the deconstruction of myths. Thus I have no desire to see a live-action remake of Mulan in the age of woke Hollywood. In relation to the dreaded 'F' word of feminism, I'll reference an unlikely source in the form of Knuckles the Echidna:
'You know Amy, any time someone brings attention to the breaking of gender roles, it ultimately undermines the concept of gender equality by implying that this is an exception and not the status quo.'Ok, Mulan is a film which is guilty of this itself with irony-laden songs such as Honour To Us All and A Girl Worth Fighting For which would normally lead one to groan with their intentionally un-pc lyrics and little visual accompaniments such as Mulan unintentionally wielding the umbrella like a sword during Honour To us All, but I'm never left with the impression the film is propagating an agenda. Mulan's journey was never some feminist quest to prove a woman can do anything a man can do and stick it to the patriarchy - rather it was to preserve her father's and by extension her family's honour. Mulan doesn't want to change how her society works, but rather just cheat its conformist rules.Hollywood has a modern tendency to portray female characters whom are just women acting like aggressive men who can beat up hordes of bad guys and lack any sense of femininity. Mulan is not like that and film demonstrates her lack of physical strength and demonstrates how she has to rely on her mental capabilities to survive. Mulan figures out how to climb the pole and retrieve the arrow with the stone slabs of strength and discipline not with physical strength but with ingenuity, by wrapping the ropes attached to the slabs around the pole as an aid to climb it. Some suspension of disbelief is required that no one in the boot camp isn't more suspicious that Mulan's alias Ping is not a man, even as an effeminate one at that (one way the animators got around this is by having Mulan's face shape change when she is dressed as Ping). To use a symbol of ancient Chinese philosophy, Mulan's balancing of masculine and feminine is akin to the balancing of the yin and yang.From the opening shot of The Great Wall, Mulan captures an epic scope on par with some of the best live-action epics. The colour scheme throughout the film is a thing of beauty complete with many a fantastic shot or creative transition. Mulan was the first time a Disney movie dealt with warfare with the sequence involving the soldiers discovering the village following a genocide (after such a joyous upbeat song) being one of the darkest Disney moments. Likewise, the beginning of the battle sequence on the mountain as Shan-Yu and his men appear over the hill is reminiscent to the film Zulu (that avalanche sequence breaks many laws of physics but no less exciting). The film's scope reaches a peak with the film's climactic money shot of Mulan jumping of the palace roof in the Forbidden City with fireworks behind her. The only criticism I have for the animation is the repetition of very similar character models in the Chinese and Hun armies as well as in the Forbidden City. Although the appearance of these models on screen is very limited it's a bit odd whenever I took notice of it.Jerry Goldsmith's East Asian influenced score is among the strongest of his career. The track titled Haircut is a piece of synth to die for! How does a piece of music from 1998 sound like it was recorded for a movie made in 1985? None of the musical numbers in Mulan fail in their grand, sweeping nature. The film's classic Disney 'I desire more' ballad in the form of Reflection (how did she wipe away all that makeup with on rub of her sleeve?) helps to signify Mulan's vulnerability. Yet Mulan's greatest musical accomplishment is the hair raising I'll Make a Man Out of You, the militaristic training montage ballad with its larger than life lyrics and memorable one-liners from the supporting characters - it can proudly stand among the likes of the Rocky IV soundtrack as motivational music to get you out of any rut.
The other area where Mulan surprisingly exceeds is the comedy as one of the funnier Disney animated films, managing to balance the laughs with the high stakes drama. Eddie Murphy as Mushu doesn't surpass Robin Williams in Aladdin but his antics and many memorable quotes give him one of his best career roles. However I find the film's funniest moments come from Mulan's attempts to act manly - it's not a body swap comedy without a scene in which the character's cover is almost blown when they are out of costume (underwear with hearts on it, anachronism much?). The only tonal criticism I would levy at the film is the end credits song True To Your Heart, an upbeat pop song which comes out of left field after Mulan's heartfelt reunion with her father and family. A good Stevie Wonder jam but it feels out of place.The film's villain Shan-Yu is a two-dimensional bad guy but is still quite entertaining from how overtly evil he and his falcon companion are, with Shan-Yu himself being complete with fangs and muted colours. I also love how his scenes end with him delivering a spine chilling message ('How many men does it take to deliver a message?' - oh, badass!). He's not the main source of conflict in the film so his two-dimensional personality doesn't interfere with the film. However, he does display one revealing character moment during the film's climax in which upon discovering Mulan was the solider from the battlefield who took out his army, in an ironic twist he is the only character in the film who does not belittle Mulan for being a woman.Mulan's world is populated with many great characters from the badass, no-nonsense general and love interest to Mulan, Li Shang (those abs are body goals) of whom it turns out is a bit socially awkward when it comes to women. Mulan's dignified father Fa Zhou on the other hand is best summed up in the powerful shot of his attempt to walk without his aid and disguise his limp to accept his conscription assignment. Although absent for most of the film, he is at the film's heart as the instigator of Mulan's journey ('I know my place! It is time you learned yours!'). The question does have to be raised if the military would actually have this old, physically weak man on the battlefield but rather to act as a general due to the fact that he appears to be a well-known figure at the boot camp and thus likely respected and held in high esteem. I do also adore the trio of soldiers - the fiery voiced Yao (thank you Harvey Feinstein), the childlike Ling and the pacifist Chein with their camaraderie and failure to act like tough guys and lady killers. Then there is the slimy pencil pusher Chi-Fu, the film's love to hate character. I like how he is given some humanising moments like his picture with the Emperor on his desk and his claim that he apparently has 'a girl back home who's not like any other'. Even The Emperor of China himself is full of wisdom and memorable quotations worthy of Confucius himself.'The flower that blooms in adversity is the most rare and beautiful of all'
When I saw Mulan 2020, I felt an emotional disconnection from Disney. All of their 'remakes' are complete BS and it just made so frustrated and depressed that people value monetary gains over telling good stories. So i decided to watch the original Mulan, and i instantly felt better. Its an amazing movie demonstrating good values like hard work, friendship, loyalty and unity. I enjoyed this film and it genuinely made me miss the old disney, the disney that was focused on telling good, moral and complex stories tht leave you wanting more. How i wish modern filmmakers could remind themselves what true storytelling is.
Was really looking forward to this and boy did it live up 2 expectation. Really great cinematography. Good storyline and overall brilliant acting well done Disney
I've been slowly going through the entire Disney animated collection with my wife and this one still holds up well! I've probably seen it about seven times total now, but with each viewing I find the movie only grows on me.
Fighting, swords, war, battles, armies. This is supposed to be a Disney kids cartoon. What in the world were they thinking? This is the second Disney animation I've disliked, the first was the cauldren. There's no cute animals, no sweet songs, it's all about war, fighting, misery, war & more war. The only part I enjoyed was the beginning when the mother & Grandmother were preparing Mulan for a ceremony. That was nice because it was about tradition and family. But that's only about 15 minutes of the beginning of the movie. I would not allow children under 10 to watch this. It's too violent & depressing.
A much stronger female lead than usual Disney princesses that is not chasing some handsome guy but rather searching for her purpose. Mushu (Eddie Murphy) has some hilarious lines that get funnier each time you watch the movie. Animation is amazing as always and really holds up years later.In order to stop her old dad going to war, Mulan dresses up as a guy and joins the army.
Amazing! So enjoyable! Notably I liked the storyline, use of comedy, animation & music.
'Mulan (1998)' follows a young woman who pretends to be a man in order to take her crippled father's place in the army when the emperor conscripts one man from every household to fight the incoming Huns. The protagonist is certainly one of Disney's most capable (and most lethal), taking matters into her own hands and often saving those who would otherwise look down on her. There are very few instances where she herself is saved by anyone, let alone a man, and this reinforces the film's underlying theme of gender equality. Indeed, the flick is soaked in the sort of genuine female empowerment that ought to be present in a lot more movies. It's good stuff, especially considering its age, and it stands out as one of Disney's best, most progressive efforts. It's also just entertaining throughout, with engaging characters and exciting set-pieces. Its highlight is probably a training montage set to the tune of 'I'll Make A Man Out Of You', which is an absolute banger of a song that's sure to get stuck in your head (seriously, it's got to be one of the best Disney songs of all time). Overall, the picture is really entertaining. It's an enjoyable, engaging experience with a distinct setting and a strong central character. 7/10
They actually made a film that not only is about female empowerment thats not political/preachy or down right stupid but it put making a good movie first and it's message second im preety sure that was in the book of revolation somwhere (also the less we talk about the remake the better)
It's pretty hard to find something about this film that doesn't work, especially with *yet another* terrible remake by Disney that's come out apparently. First the soundtrack is very strong, and only adds to the gravity of the scenes.The animations great, the characters rock, and the humor is uplifting and fun.Mulan tells the tale of a young woman named Mulan who must take her father's place in the army raised to fight a horde of Mongol Invaders in Medieval China. What surprises me is the incredible amount of emotional power told in this simple tale of self determination, responsibility and honor. Even though it's cartoonish, over the top and even a little ridiculous at times, Mulan is a well written film, and Mulan is a protagonist that embodies personal growth in every level. She's resilient, honest, and selfless. It's surprising that a simple children's movie tells very mature and well developed themes of duty, self sacrifice, and emotional zeal. It's power holds up well over 22 years later.The only problems are Eddie Murphy starring Mooshu (who can be annoying and out of place at times), the meh villain, and the Disney standard animal sidekicks of Mulan, who technically is a Disney princess at the end of the day, albeit a great one.She's not this 'girl power' character because she's strong, she's strong because she fully becomes the individual China needed her to be, not in a subversive way, but in a smart one. At the end of the movie, it's noted that Mulan's arc wasn't about becoming the person she thought she needed to be, but the one other people needed her to be. China needed her to be a warrior, not a wife. Overall, I highly recommend this great movie, to fans of Disney and not. Thank you Disney for this incredible classic.
Not exactly historically correct, however Mulan, 1998, functions well as good storytelling and entertainment in the Disney animated tradition. An epic battle scene against the Huns delivers brief emotional weight. The strong title character of Mulan represents a departure from the usual demure female Disney heroine, here as a strong willed and determined young woman who comes of age and earns respect.
The film is super entertaining. Gives respect to the story of Mulan while keeping it light for people of all ages.
I love everything about this film. Pity the 2020 version has failed audiences with stupid plot and cast. Gotta watch Mulan animation again
Mulan (1998) :
Brief Review -You trusted Ping, why is Mulan any different? Loved It. I remember watching this animated flick in childhood on some TV channel or DVD but that time, by default, i didn't pay attention as a Movie Buff. Anyways, i enjoyed it then and even today when i feel like being a matured movie freak. Mulan is a story of a girl who decides to go and join Army to save her old age father and then discovers her own identity and glory. The story itself doesn't run on a dramatic path as the girl herself seems hungry to find the insights otherwise many films make mistake of letting someone else force her to do so. Apart from the girl angle the 2nd best thing is perspective set to have woman respect in society. When Mulan asks if you trusted the fake male version of her then why is Female any different? So sharp it was. Additional factors like family, drama, love are also engaging and loveable. Animation effects are quite Decent not anything spectacular may be because they wanted to keep the simplicity intact (as i figure it). Like i always say, animation gives you libery and freedom to give nasty and wild portrayal to the characters which live action films can't achieve. The characters can jump, fight, laughing, fly like anything and we won't mind at it, but the same cannot be applied in live action and that's the main reason i wanted to watch this Original Disney animated flick before giving a watch to the latest live action remake Mulan (2020). You know, there is some kind of nostalgia and cuteness in Animated films which makes them delightful and soulful. Mulan direction is upto the mark to whatever the script and visuals are provided. It couldn't have got any better, although overall impact of the film could have been better for sure. As i see it, Mulan is another Disney Product from 90s that has got deserving audience and fans.RATING - 7/10*By - #samthebestest
Even my elementary kids disappointed with this movie.
I am sorry.
Just amazing. Yes there's some weird things and makes Mongolians look bad. But for a Disney movie it is great! Amazing songs and so much emotion.
If you enjoy reading my Spoiler-Free reviews, please follow my blog :)2020 brings us yet another Disney's live-action remake. After new versions of The Jungle Book, Aladdin, The Lion King, and many others, now comes the time for Mulan. Therefore, I decided to go back in time and relive one of the latest installments of the Disney Renaissance Era. As a kid, even though I was (and I still am) far from being someone impacted by the Chinese culture, I always enjoyed the movie for its story, characters, and of course, its memorable score. However, for some reason, it never became one of those Disney classics I revisit every year. This might very well be only my 5th time watching this film, which for someone born in the 90s like me, feels weirdly short.This is probably the first time I watch Mulan since I was an innocent young teenager, so I was definitely intrigued to see if my overall opinion would change a lot or not. Well, enough of the suspense, I love it! I appreciate it a lot more than when I was a kid, without a single doubt. In fact, if I could only choose one movie to be remade in the live-action format, Mulan would be my ultimate choice, simply due to its epic and cinematic feel. Not trying to take away from the compelling story and incredible characters, but when it comes to live-action, Mulan has everything to deliver a chill-inducing visual spectacle. This film proves how 2D animation can feel so powerful and emotionally overwhelming.As with every movie from the Disney Renaissance Era, the animation looks gorgeous. Dozens of jaw-dropping shots resemble the epic scope of Lord of the Rings. The action sequences are incredibly riveting and innovative, placing the main character in situations where she needs to act smart. Jerry Goldsmith's music plays a vital part in the narrative. Not only it develops characters in a meaningful way, but it helps the story move forward with fun and entertaining songs. Once again, the action set pieces are also elevated by this score, which offers a whole other cinematic layer. Technically, Mulan is one of Disney's best animated flicks ever.However, as usual, the two pillars of any film are what people end up saving in their hearts and memory: story and characters. With so many writers attached to screenplay credits, I'm genuinely surprised Mulan has such a well-written, well-structured, emotionally resonating narrative. Packed with culturally significant storylines, it's hard not to feel enthralled by Mulan's (Ming-Na Wen) arc. A daughter who goes to war by stealing her old father's spot, protecting him from certain death, while also trying to honor her family. A woman who wants to be more than just a wife to some man. Fighting against the menacing Shan-Yu (Miguel Ferrer) and his army, but also against condescending stereotypes and ancient society rules.Ming-Na Wen gives Mulan a powerful voice worth remembering. After more than twenty years, her journey is still an inspiring tale not only to every woman and young girl on the planet, but to everyone who lays eyes on this movie. Captain Li Shang (BD Wong) also has his own arc of trying to prove himself worthy of being called Captain. Against all the odds, he still trains his troops and honors his own father. Ling (Gedde Watanabe), Yao (Harvey Fierstein), and Chien-Po (Jerry Tondo) are hilarious, but also essential to help save China from the enemy. Shan-Yu works perfectly as an intimidating presence, even though his motivations follow the generic villain formula.Now, prepare yourselves because my only issue with the film might be a hot take. I'm sure that as a kid, I loved Mushu and all of his jokes. He also has a compelling storyline in the same way as other characters. However, watching the film now, I can only hear Eddie Murphy perform a few jokes like a standup routine. When I listen to Mushu, I don't think 'oh, that's Mushu'. I think 'that's Eddie Murphy'. It's a remarkably somber, dark movie to match Disney's trademark humor, so the tone's balance must be perfect for it to work. Mushu might bring the necessary levity with a lighthearted joke here and there, but overall, he's the main reason why sometimes the film loses track of when to take things seriously and when to be funny.All in all, Mulan is one of the most culturally significant animated classics that Disney possesses. Even after two decades, its story inspires every single person who sets eyes in this magnificent piece of cinema. Its emotionally compelling narrative is packed with epic action sequences elevated by a memorable score, which also helps develop characters and carry the story forward. The eponymous character's arc still resonates with many people today: a journey of proving one's self-worth, family, and breaking stereotypes. With a terrific voice cast, almost every character holds a captivating storyline with their own clear motivations. Visually, it has a cinematic feel that no other Disney animated flick owns. Tonally, the balance could be better. The tragic, somber, dark war is present throughout the whole runtime, and while some levity and humor are definitely welcome, some jokes stand out as unnecessary, and Eddie Murphy's Mushu is way too silly during certain moments. Having in mind the target audience, one can't complain too much. It's a little nitpick in an otherwise phenomenal movie, one that I recommend to every reader so that you can all be inspired by it like so many people all around the world.Rating: A-
Mulan isnt one of my favourite Disney animated films but it still a very inspiring story that has a great message towards young girls that they dont have to be scared of trying to be something they are not and also that is okay to yourself even if some people dont like that.Story was nicely told to,it had a cool premise and idea that was used in a solid way,i can also see that this film will be loved more by female audience but it had a good fun for everyone if you look more deeply,Mulan as a character was very strong and smart,side character were little unfunny but still watchable,songs except Il make a Man out of you werent so great,Mulan in end was a fine film,not best of Disney or even great but still a film with some great messages and lessons
Interesting to revisit this film, what with the live action version coming out recently.I think this is a good film, the heroine has more about her than most Disney leading ladies, and Eddie Murphy (practicing his vocal performances ahead of the 'Shrek' franchise) lends good comedic support.With some lovely messages about bravery, independence and being yourself, this is a good film.
'A single grain of rice can tip the scale. One man may be the difference between victory and defeat.'I wish I was as independent and brave as Mulan, I truly do. Her story is not only interesting from start to finish but it also has meaning.Mulan is quite different from the other characters in the Disney universe and she is a positive role model for kids. Instead of being a princess, she is a heroine that's strong, smart, resourceful and independent and she truly displays that each of us can achieve whatever goal we have with hard work and dedication.As I'm still struggling to find myself and what I want to do with my life, this kind of tale tends to remind me about independence and following my own path. I spent over 20 years doing other people's biddings and I just want to break that chain now.
Perfect songs. Perfect animation. Perfect story.
Pretty much everything about this is perfect.
There are no other shortcomings except that the time is too short.
Mulan is an entertaining tale of a young girl who takes her father's place in the Chinese army. I think what I appreciate most about this film is that they don't spend a massive amount of time on her possibly being discovered. There's one scene that creates that kind of tension, but otherwise she remains hidden until the movie is ready for her to be revealed. The rest of the time she's just treated like any other soldier who is trying their best to become an effective warrior in the battle against the Huns. I like the training sequences, I find the other soldiers that she meets to be charming, and I'm always a sucker for those scenes when the instructor presents a seemingly impossible task and our protagonist figures out how to make it happen. The film manages to condense the war down to a single moment, but I thought it was a surprisingly effective way of making our heroine a savior on such a grand scale that it allows people to ignore centuries of tradition that minimize the role of women.Where I think Mulan suffers to some degree is that the creators felt beholden to the Disney animated tropes. The small cricket and dragon are not important to the plot and mostly provide slapstick comedy breaks. I'm all for Eddie Murphy being silly in an animated film, but the tone of Mulan feels less suited to his antics. In fact, I suspect the live action remake of this film will be one of the best because they will probably excise Mushu and Cri-kee from the script. The musical numbers are good songs, but they also feel a bit unnecessary in this story. I wouldn't say they bothered me, because the tunes are catchy, but I didn't think they needed to be there. My only other complaint about Mulan would be that the entire film feels a bit rushed. This might also be based on the fact that they were trying to meet some Disney animated movie standards, and keep it under 90 minutes for the young kids. I just felt they could have used a little more time to let some aspects of the story breathe and develop some of the characters a bit more. However, Mulan works quite well as a film, and it also looks great. This is definitely one of Walt Disney Animation Studios' successes.
Under the idea of Disney, Hua Mulan's story is blooming again. A woman out of the world and their own shackles, for the family and the country to fight hard to win their own wonderful life.
Just watch the new movie don't take other suggestions
'Mulan' is an animated historical adventure movie based on the 'Ballad of Mulan' by Guo Maoqian. It was directed by Tony Bancroft and Barry Cook. Thirty-two scriptwriters worked on the script.The Chinese girl, whose name is Fa Mulan, wanting to keep her father safe, dresses as a man and goes to war instead of him with her dragon Mushu who helps her. People around her expected that Mulan would be only a wife like every other Chinese woman, but she turns to be a strong and brave warrior who with other warriors saves her country and protects the emperor from his enemies.Coming out in 1998, it was popular among children and adults as well. Most critics like this movie. It won several Awards and the love of the audience. It is one of the most exciting animated movies of the 90s.Written by Anastasiia Shystovska
Mulan, directed by Tony Bancroft & Barry Cook, produced by Pam Coats, is one of Disney's first princess', that really wasn't a typical princess, doing princess duties. Bancroft & Cook incorporated great heart-warming messages throughout the story, treating the kids like actual human beings, and also giving the adults something to be invested in as well. This was a big 'girl power' movement, but I was perfectly okay with it, due to it's soulful messages. The story was pretty fast paced, but well balanced with the tones & amount of content they had to offer.Hand Bacher & Ric Sluiter did an amazing job bringing these fantastic drawing-animations to life, backed up with favorable voice overs by Eddie Murphy, BD Wong, and more! All of these characters looked great, and were balanced out very well; nobody shadowed one another. Mulan was an empowering character, that you really cared about because she embraces such an influential & powering figure. Her character development meant so much to the film, with the narrative flowing through her actions. Mushu is one of my favorite Disney characters of all time! He is the needed comedic relief of the film, having just enough screentime to not over saturate his character. The antagonist is pretty creepy, while posing a huge threat at all times. All of the additional side characters were great! They were all great fun, and utilized nicely, complimenting Mulan.The screenplay was very serious at times, but managed to sneak in well placed comedy, and deep dialogues. The dialogues were wise and witty, with a few silly moments to really even out the tone & pacing.The score by Jerry Goldsmith had a great battle score. Goldsmith had a hand from Stevie Wonder, Mathew Wilder & David Zippel, to help create these near-classic songs.Overall, this movie was very unique, and it truly paid off. Disney classic!
'Mulan' is good Disney.There's a lot to enjoy about this film, it's not without a few less entertaining parts but overall it's one that many will like. The plot is pretty fascinating, even if it isn't as dark or in-depth as it could be.Ming-Na Wen gives a more than acceptable performance in the lead role. Eddie Murphy, though, is definitely the most memorable voice from this. I don't love his character, who is a bit too cartoon-y and looks out of place, but Murphy is simply funny, in what certainly feels like a precursor to his role in the 'Shrek' franchise. None of the other cast standout, yet still give what's required.Animation-wise it's nice, while a few of the songs are catchy. I don't, as already alluded to with Murphy's Mushu, overly rate the character design. Aside from the aforementioned, I also don't like how Shan Yu (Miguel Ferrer) looks - he, at least to me, just looks angry all the time rather than terrifying or threatening.I do class this as a film worth watching for sure, the pacing helps keep things enjoyable.
MULAN is one of those movies that I don't count among my favorites, but I still enjoy watching it now and then. It's a pleasant movie, a gem from late in the Disney Renaissance that benefits from its mostly understated strengths: Mulan is a great heroine, the art style evokes Chinese watercolor painting, and the songs are lovely. The 'girl power' theme is presented in a non-preachy manner too, a rarity in current Hollywood movies which feel the need to hammer their points home. Mulan doesn't need to give speeches about why she's badass-- we see it in her actions, courage, and intelligence. About the only element I dislike is Mushu, but even he gets a good line in now and then.
This movie is fun as usually, but it surprised me with how serious it gets sometimes, something missing from modern animated movies. i was a little nervous at first, with it possibly not holding up, but as soon as mushu and the gang joined the movie, it took off.the only thing keeping this from being much better is the songs. don't get me wrong, they weren't bad, but they aren't songs i would listen to outside the movie. although there was one musical score part that gave me super goosebumps (about 5 viewings, 6/10/2020)
Mulan is a well-known ancient folktale in Chinese history. It tells the story of mulan, who disguises herself as a man and goes to the war to protect the country in place of her aged father, and finally returns as a national hero/heroine. Although the story of mulan was evidently modified from its original, Disney did a fantastic job at retelling the story, and delivered it through the beautiful hand-drawn animation that has been lost to us for many years. As a Chinese myself, I know the mulan story like millions of Chinese people do. Some people (espcially Chinese people) may not like the Disney version of mulan simply because Disney didn't stay true to the original, but i feel somewhat differently about this. Not only did i have no problem with Disney's decision to make modifications to mulan's story, I actually kinda appreciate that they did. Cuz Disney's retelling of mulan turned out to be rather amazing, and even better than the original in my opinion. I mean, the original story is great, but it lacks fun and humor, which you can find in Disney's mulan. In the Disney version, Mulan is an outgoing, smart, and independent young woman who has difficulty fitting in the more traditional and reserved ancient Chinese society, where a woman's value is judged by marrying into a good family and being a good wife. So naturally this creates conflict and inner struggle for mulan, and thus brings out the musical number 'reflection' that expresses mulan frustrations and desires. This song is so beautifully written and the lyrics have such meaningful morals and depth that it touches me every time i hear it, and I'm a guy! This song can certainly relate to a great many of young people, not only girls but also boys, cuz its central theme is all the same, that is to be your true self regardless the environment that you in. And now back to the movie, there's a lot to love about Disney's mulan: the story, the fun characters, the songs and music, the beautiful animation, etc. The story is smoothly-paced and very believable. You have no problem understanding why things happen the way they do and why mulan has taken certain actions. And I think Disney created the characters very successfully because they made them look like real Chinese people instead of the classic Disney characters that we used to see. And they made the backgrounds in the animation look like beautiful Chinese landscape paintings, which really amazed me! And the opening of the movie is probably one of the most brilliant among the Disney animation features. I was completely blown away when i first saw it in the theater. Although Disney didn't completely stay true to the original mulan, it stayed true to the spirit of the original story and the spirit of china in most part! And as Mulan being a Chinese story, i think Disney did its best to make it look like and feel like Chinese, and i really appreciate their effort. So thank you Disney, for making mulan so great!
A classic gem by Disney, so much charm, and incredible colors! Probably seen at least 80 times I just wasn't reviewing till a couple years ago. So much is great about Mulan like the music, characters, epic parts, cinematography, and wonderful story. On another note this shouldn't have been made into a live action movie.
Good adaption of Chinese folklore with a tough heroine and an entertaining Disney style. The action and settings stand out.
This animation is very Nice. Maybe the princess of Disney more stronger
This movie of princess is nice but without funny. Is without carism
The film tells the inspirational folk story of Mulan's father in the army. The cartoons are also very attractive to children. Disney's films never let me down.
There is nothing to say. I is brilliant. We need more such movies about women warriors.
But couple of songs here absolutely irrelevant. That's why not 10.
I have a small sister and thi is the best cartoon for 7 years old.
This is way better than the 2019 mulan
the songs,the plot, everything
In this Chinese fairy tale, a girl masquerades as a boy and delivers some good lessons on the concept of honor as she tries to save her disabled father. Boys may respond to this film better than to the standard Disney 'princess' stories. ---from Musicals on the Silver Screen, American Library Association, 2013
I think this movie is one of the best disney movies for me.
Mulan is by far the most kickass Disney character of all time, no contest. Taking on the entire Hun army, getting cast out, and still shows up to the final boss to end things right. Mulan is literal goals. The perfect mix of humor, action, and good old Disney magic. One of my favorites!
All the Disney princess have serious problems with his father (he abandons them, changes them for a new family, or simply dies as a result of a terrible disease) All they have daddy's issues, except by Mulán who is the best princess in the world for 10 very simple reasons: Reason number 1. She brokes with that stereotype 2. She has courage, reason number 3. She has honor, 4. She has the most beautiful dog of all China, reason number 5. She has an adorable personality. All the rest reasons you can find them into the movie, and please, enjoy it, it's an unic experience, full of laughs, drama, romance, and why not some of terror. Moreover, the soundtrack is better than Pulp Fiction soundtrack, Singing in the rain sountrack, Guardians of Galaxy soundtrack, and Gladiator soundtrack all together and addedes. So I leave you my favorite movie in your hands and in your hearts, hoping that you value it as it deserves.
The film adapted the story of Hua Mulan, but did not change the specific historical facts. The film has a romantic color, and the film has a humorous and funny style. It looks hearty and very relaxed. This style is very popular with the audience.
The 90s were known as 'Disney's Renaissance' where many titles reached critically and commercial success, some of them even breaking records like Mulan(1998). It is not an exaggeration to say that Mulan(1998) is one of the most original, well-crafted and aesthetically innovative animated feature in Disney's repertoire.From the mesmerizing chinese painting-style opening titles to the stunning animation and sharp character designs, the film holds an aesthetically pleasing style and feel very different to what Disney used to do back then and which stand the test of time. Contrary to computer animation, it's hard for traditional animation to become outdated and it will still resonate the same to newer generations as long as it's done right. That's why the moral and themes of the story must be significant in order for it to have a chance to still be relevant in the future.The film succeeds in both aspects, it provides an endearing, touching and well-realised story loosely based in the famous Chinese legend of Mulan; and a riveting emotive and action-filled spectacle with an incredibly well-composed soundtrack and an empowering message for women. The movie has some elements that could have potentially ruined the tone and craftmanship of the tale being told like the character of Mushu. However, thanks to the well-written jokes, impeccable performance by Eddie Murphy and overall relevance to the plot it provides a funny support character meant to help the main lead to express her thoughts at certain crucial parts of the movie.Disney has been known to add common elements to every Princess tale making it a bit formulaic, elements like animal side characters or mascots and a romantic interest. While these are merely irrelevant to the story and mostly add comical moments to it, in this film all the side characters have a reason to be there and have a role within the story. Except perhaps the dog, which only appears in one sequence at the beginning of the movie and it's never seen again.Furthermore, the first 20 minutes are some of the most intense, well fleshed out and heartfelt moments of any animated feature. With little dialogue and the abundance of symbolisms, songs and wise metaphors, the first act of the movie is able to convey to the audience precisely how Mulan feels towards the situation she is living and the overall picture of women in this portrayal of feudal China.While some views and commentaries found in songs may have aged poorly, the film contains uplifting and encouraging calls to action motivated by honor and identity. THere's a sense of comradery as the training the soldiers go through provide a needed bonding that would benefit them not only in defeating the enemy but also would help them open their eyes and heart.Another very important aspect the movie stands out for is the uncensoring of the more tragic and darker moments involving the enemy and the consequences of war without ever taking it too far.IN CONCLUSION, as a take of a very loosely based portrayal of the legend of Mulan the movie doesn't succeed as much, but as a story of a daughter that went to war instead of her wounded father to not only save his life but prove her worth and find her self and eventually suceeding in doing so bringing honor to her family it's a remarkable movie. Great animation, original setting, inspiring scenes and symbolism, soothing and energetic music and incredible themes. This film does everything an animated movie can do and it does it perfectly.
The animals and Li Shang's pectoral muscles are very pointy.
'Who is that girl I see,
staring straight back at me,
why is my reflection someone I don' know.'
This Mulan looks more like a bad guy than the bad guys do; please don't destroy my childhood
This movie is great as it's got an amazing catchy soundtrack, brilliant animation, great relatable themes like to always honor your family's name and to follow your heart. I think it is a positive educational film that has established the image of the ancient female hero through the tortuous story of Mulan joining the army on behalf of his father, and has promoted the traditional virtues of filial piety, perseverance, patriotism and so on.
In 1998,Disney made this Chinese folk story into a film.And turned this into a live-action movie in 2020.I like the line which said by the new mulan,Loyal brave and true.This is what Mulan in my sight.She was strong but gentle.The war made her a real soldier,but she made herself a true leader.She broke the distinction between men and women.She is a warrior.And I also can't wait to see the live-action film in the cinema.I love Mulan,she is the role modle in my whole life.
This movie shows you the kind of environment and lifestyle other countries can have, and is a great animated film for children. With great characters, funny scenes, and action packed adventure. 1 of many great Disney princess films
Day settle down, the partners in the past and look at her every time she loaded her daughter to always see them, afraid of the partners in the past, Mulan in mind: you know? Bloody battle in the past to work with you on the battlefield, Li Under the great service; not to come back after the emperor of the reward I am a girl.
Give me back my daughter character, how proud Mulan.
Mulan joined the army for her father not only to do her filial duty, but also to find her own value and win the victory of her soul in a society that oppresses and binds women.
Disney heads East for this fantasy adventure, this time based on an ancient myth from Imperial Chinese folklore. The Hun hordes are attacking the ancient kingdom and the Emperor must rally every troop he can to defend the nation. His riders travel far and wide calling upon all his men to join the army. They arrive at the home of 'Mulan' and rather then send her ageing father, she decides to impersonate a boy and go join the fight. There is plenty of action in this much darker animation; the evil 'Shan-Yu' has devilish, piercing eyes and the use of darker colours and hues - alongside heavy drum-based themes from Jerry Goldsmith goes some way to project a decent sense of menace on the latter half of the film. 'Mulan' herself, though spending half of the film pretending, turns out to be a feisty heroine easily the match of her male counterparts. So, why only 6/20 - well: Eddie Murphy drove me mad. 'Mushu' was as irritating as he was noisy; a hammer to crack a nut - so overblown as to largely ruin the film for me.
There are many more bright spots in the film moved me, Mulan changed clothes, with the moving drum, Mulan cut off their hair, the top armour, from the sword out of her handsome face, riding a horse, howling out. A woman in such a critical moment, such a bleak rainy night, can have such bold and heroic feelings, how can I not be moved?
Mulan in the barracks, through a night's effort, with a clever way to bite teeth to climb the flagpole. Because she is a daughter, so the training always can not keep up with the team, almost by the school lieutenant Li Xiang 'exhortation '. But she did not concede defeat, with a skillful way to climb the flagpole bit by bit, finally, in the morning sun, encouraged by the comrades who once hated each other, she climbed to the top, took off Li Xiang for all the soldiers set the first difficulty -- he shot the arrow. She proved herself with her cleverness and effort, as well as the recruits.
Flowers bloom in adversity are the most rare and beautiful! I love Mulan and look forward to the first edition.
Mulan is probably Disney's first attempt at a full exposure to Chinese culture, so it's a lot more admirable for Disney to study China than to just scratch the surface.
This movie is great as it's got an amazing catchy soundtrack, brilliant animation, great relatable themes like to always honor your family's name and to follow your heart. These themes are perfectly shown in the character of Mulan as she has to honor her fathers name as he is too weak to fight in the war against The Huns so Mulan takes his place to honor his name and her family. The characters are very relatable and well developed. Some with hillrious humour like Mushu. So you definietly watch this film if you're into Disney.
This is the first Disney cartoon I saw. When I was a child, my father played mulan every day to keep me quiet. I know my lines. I grew up with mulan. I love her. A girl who gave everything for her family and found her true self. I love her so much, especially when mulan climbed to the top of the pole. She has all the good qualities. Always love mulan. She is a role model for every girl.
As a girl, I still remember seeing mulan for the first time.The fusion of Chinese culture and American values is a new attempt.Maybe it was the first time I came into contact with women's rights~
I've seen it many times, I like this movie, I love Mulan's bravery and firmness, and I hope I can become such a woman
Scoring high marks on both storytelling & technical fronts, Mulan easily ranks amongst the most accomplished films to come out of Disney Renaissance Era, and remains one of the finest films to date. Crafted with passion & narrated with flair, the film deftly juggles relevant themes with crowd-pleasing obligations, and makes excellent use of its interesting premise, vibrant characters, clever wit & top-notch animation to deliver a highly enjoyable & immensely entertaining viewing experience.
I love mulan sooooo much, her courage touched me deeply. Since I was a child, I have been dreaming to be the one who made history like her. In addition, I especially like Mushu in the movie.
I like this film because I think it is a positive educational film that has established the image of the ancient female hero through the tortuous story of Mulan joining the army on behalf of his father, and has promoted the traditional virtues of filial piety, perseverance, patriotism and so on
Parts of Mulan are great. Most of Mulan is good. The soundtrack is the source of the most nostalgia for me. There are parts of this film that I'd forgotten, so it was fun to watch it again with my family. Also, I think I enjoy Eddie Murphy as Mushu more than I enjoy Eddie Murphy as Donkey.
When I was like 6 years old I think I bought the VHS with birthday money and I watched it over and over.This is a movie I don't think I'll ever stop rewatching. As good as it is that feminism is getting more and more popular, we unfortunately have too many writers who think they can score brownie points by waving the black and purple flag without anything to say about a struggles of women. Ocean's 8, Brave and that god awful Dracula Adaptation in 2019 just pandered to the audience by telling them what they wanted to hear at the expense of well developed characters and good story telling.Mulan is therefor perhaps even more relevant now than ever as what a good empowered female movie should actually look like, and this is over a decade before #metoo.A lot of this is to do with Mulan herself. She is a good character because she is neither a helpless damsel in distress like Snow White nor the opposite problem of a character that has no personality beyond being practically perfect in every except in having no real personality, like Hermione Granger.She is clearly smart and resourceful from her dog powered chicken feeding device (It's a lot more simple than I make it sound) but when she enlists in the army she is as much out of her depth as anyone but she has the capacity to rise to the challenge in a believable way and they don't spend too much time on it. Mulan is the perfect fusion of relatable underdog and credible hero. While in a lot of comparable movies, the human protagonist is almost one of the blandest with the anthropomorphic help carrying the show, but she has perhaps the most personality of any pre-Tangled 'Princess'.We have not only an internal conflict of a person not knowing where they belong but also a material one in Mulan trying to spare her father military service and the too strands coalesce so elegantly in this story of overcoming the self, of friendships emerging between initially hostile parties and of also of the futility of war in a mature and subtle way ('A girl worth fighting--' cue reality check). One really gets a vivid sensation of the destruction of armed conflict in a way one typically doesn't see in the 'family' movie.It ticks all the other boxes you expect it too and more: the music, not just the songs but the intense score, the immersive sense of local color juxtaposed to the austerity of battle, the comedy, the pathos, the impeccable structuring of the story and intense images (Mulan must have worn the most easily removied make-up ever but I don't care), that all come together in a feature that is more of a treat each time.My only real qualm is an unsavoury spitting attempt but that's a small thing.This is what a feminist family movie looks like.
We are introduced to the title character almost immediately in this movie. She is Mulan, an awkward Chinese girl that is trying to learn what tradition dictates a Chinese woman learn. It becomes quite clear that Mulan will never be a traditional lady, even with the help of a lucky cricket given to her by her grandmother. The family has no time to recover from Mulan's failure as the Huns are invading and the Emperor decrees that each village must offer up a man from each family to fight. Being the only man in their family, Mulan's father accepts the calling, despite being a cripple. Fearing that her father will not survive, Mulan steals off in the dead of night and enlists in her father's stead. Unbeknownst to Mulan, her ancestors send a guardian to protect her. What she ends up getting is Mushu, a disgraced dragon and Crickey, the 'lucky' cricket. Together they must work to save her lie, for discovery means death. Can Mulan help save China and defeat the Huns?Though the setting of this movie is not one with which Americans can relate, the message surely is, that women can become anything they want. What I love about this movie is this fact is not crammed down your throat as it oft is with movies that have come out since. In fact, unlike many of the feminists in newer movies, you find yourself rooting for Mulan from the very beginning. This movie does a lot for female empowerment without emasculating men in the process. Having Eddie Murphy voice Mushu was the icing on the cake. I am a straight, white man, and I absolutely love this movie and watch it probably more often than I should.
The adaptation of the film was quite successful. In the film, Mulan joined the army for her father. Filial piety to her father is the cause of the story, but not the ultimate goal. The significance of joining the army is to find the most real self. The truth is very important for both boys and girls, and also an opportunity for Mulan to prove her ability. Success only cares for those who work hard, regardless of gender.
As an Asian, I cannot be more excited about this movie and the effort that all the crew and cast put in to make this movie as close as to Chinese culture. It was the first time that Asian, especially Asian women, have a chance to show their strength to the world, that Asian women do not follow the stereotype of tiny, skinny, lowliness, and pavid. Plus the sprit of protecting the country as protecting the family is an important element of Chinese culture, which you might not find in anywhere else in the world.
An early example of a Hollywood film that doesn't whitewash an Asian lead character.Mulan is a satisfying movie for its animation, action, and storytelling. Not to mention that Mulan inspired an entire generation of girls growing up in the 1990s.This film deserves its solidified spot in Disney's golden era of 1990s children movies.5/5. Unforgettable and rewatchable for years to come.
It seems what makes this movie stand out to most of its fans is the fact that Mulan is a female action hero and not a rich princess, she's Asian and not white and it shows little girls that they can and should be treated equally as boys. However, I'm not a kid, I don't have kids, I'm not a sexist, or a racist, so none of these things affects me looking at this as anything more than just a cartoon. A cartoon that's the intellectual property of a multibillion-dollar company that had nothing more in mind than making the most money they could by exploiting a market of fans dissatisfied with the status quo that Disney themselves perpetuated with movies that had white women waiting for a rich handsome prince charmings to save them. They did those movies when it served them and stopped when it didn't. I don't say that try and sound like I've found out their big secret, I say that to say this movie is just okay to me, because of MY perspective. However, I do respect and understand that there are other ways of looking at this movie that would elevate it to others. But just not me, Eddie Murphy was funny, the villain was pretty forgettable and the love story was so tacked on that if felt like something done in protest, as if they filmmakers said, this is my movie and if you cut it off here it's done, but let it play a few minutes more and you have the studio mandated ending, but I also could be way off. Not bad, not great, good.
An interesting female character with some depth. You don't see that everyday and even less in a Disney.
The animation has not aged well, but that's inevitable in 2020 where the technique has known so much imporvement in the past years.
The film's beginning is the weakest part in my opinion. I couldn't feel invested in Mulan's fate because she acted in such a dumb way that it seemed inevitable she would be in unpleasant situations. But from the point where she begins er training, has a goal and is focused, I was in. The ending is magnificent in every way.
However, I am not a fan of this disney-ish chinese culture. That's personal but Disney bringing its touch to every culture, more particularly one that is so different, is out of place in my opinion.
The music is incredible and the directing is good. A film that could have been better, but is quite enjoyable.
Mulan is not only independent but also the most caring Disney character , she went to war just so her father won't to protect her family and she also won the war and all this while being undercover as a man because they only allowed men in war. The film is also very funny the humor is very ahead of its time and the animal sidekicks are also unforgettable.
Mulan sticks out in my mind for this reason. For once, we have a strong female lead, or at the least, stronger than most of them. She isn't counted among the Disney 'princesses' line-up. She doesn't want for herself, and she seeks to look deeper within herself to discover her inner being. She isn't like Ariel, who wants to be someone else.
The animation of Mulan is what you would expect from Disney adapting a Chinese legend - i.e. being a film that features cute animal sidekicks and kid-friendly humour.Mulan has a positive message about a girl who wants to save her father's life from being conscripted and ends up becoming the saviour of China. There is the growth of her relationship with her war comrades see her as a liability and ends up loving her. There were powerful moments like when Mulan's father accepts his conscription papers and practices with his sword despite being frail health. 'I'll Make a Man out of You' was a great musical number.But the film does not stand up as well against some of the other films from the Disney Renaissance because it relied more on slapstick humour than some of the other films from the period.It is an enjoyable but minor offering from the House of Mouse.
Let's be honest. Mulan is the greatest, most courageous girl in the Disney-verse. She was an inspiration to 7 year-old-me.
In their live-action revival of Mulan, Disney redefines the standard for modern princess tales in this new and improved take on a beloved children's movie. Watchers who went to see the original Mulan will be met with many familiar faces in this film, but the movie they grew up with is a far cry from this remake.Liu Yifei gave a compelling performance as high school junior Mulan, whose soccer team is cut due to a lack of funds. When the boys' coach refuses to give her or her teammates a tryout, they devise a plot to disguise her as her brother so she can train with his school's team during preseason and beat her own school. Mulan navigates a new school and team, all under the nose of her watchful and traditional parents.This film provides great entertainment with its vibrant cast and twists on the original tale. In the past, Disney's attempts to express different cultures have fallen short in their representation. Karo incorporates a plethora of elements of Chinese culture in Mulan's everyday life, namely in her home life and relationship with her parents. She is a relatable, average teen, yet she is also faced with navigating what it means to be a first generation American. Karo's directing style preserves the humor of the original Mulan but revitalizes what it means to make a kid's movie with great potential for impact.The one arguably integral character that was missing from this live action take was Li Shang. Older audiences might have been shocked to see him missing from the screen; after a few scenes, however, it was easy to see how Mulan didn't need him to complete her goal and provide a fulfilling plot.Although this film is a far cry from serious, it manages to down the same female stereotypes that Disney has set out to do for decades far more effectively than the original. Mulan proves not only her own might, but the potential of her entire girls soccer team and any other girl out there to be successful at their passion. Audiences both laugh at Mulan's antics and rejoice with her in her triumphs. The evolution in dialogue with her parents also tackles the cultural pressures she faces.Despite any minor shortcomings in this light-hearted film, Karo's Mulan beats out the first Mulan film in what it takes to create a feminist 'princess' movie. This film is fun, creative, and inspiring, and sure to empower tiny female audiences everywhere.
The Mulan movie brings great teaching in the movie, she didn't want her father to go to war and she decided to pass for being a man because he was debilitated due to his age! She shows her intelligence, leading feminism and bravery so much that happens in real life and my movie grade is 6.Movie watched on January 30, 2019
I first heard of this film when i saw a piece of a trailer before Krippendorf's Tribe and was curious to see if this movie could be better than the last few disney movies which were kinda boring. Boy I was surprised. This movie is amazing. Can't wait to see what the remake has in store...
Mulan is based on a Chinese legend about a woman who fought as a man during the war and saved her father from death .It has a nice female lead and a funny character in Mushu.Mulan is the next Disney movie which will get a remake,coming out in March 2020 and I hope it does it justice.9/10
I understand that a lot of people enjoy 'Mulan' but it never really does anything for me. I'll watch it once in a while but not nearly as often as I watch some of the other Disney animated movies. 'Mulan' is a great looking movie. It has a few nice moments and one great fight scene but that's about it. It's just not that interesting of a movie. The story and characters just aren't that involving. Most of the humor falls flat. The songs are mostly forgettable. The voice work is kind of bland. I don't mean to pile on because 'Mulan' is not a bad movie. It's just not for me.
This movie was really just Eddie Murphy having fun with a cartoon version of himself, and I love it.
When people ask me what my favourite disney movie is, I instantly shout out 'Mulan', it's an absolute classic in my humble opinion. There's humour, a wonderful storyline, great character development, songs are brilliant. I could go on and on about this movie. Who wants me to write an essay?This is my first review just to tell you to watch it, I think you shouldn't take my recommendation lightly.
I'm not threatening you, calm down. Just watch it!
This film is a childhood and adult good favourite of mine. It's a beautiful and heart warming film. It's so so good and would highly recommend seeing it.I would be surprised if there are people who haven't seen or even heard of Mulan. especially now that the live action film is coming out from Disney.I think everyone will find something to love about this film.It's Disney magic at its very best!!
Mulan was my childhood Disney movie I absolutely loved it as a child and I still very much do. Mulan really stands out among all the great Disney movies for me because of how unique and different it is. the story of a young woman disguising herself as a man in the army in order to save her father dosnt sounds like your typical Disney movie and it isn't which is why its so great. the animation is absolutely stunning the attention to detail is just flawless. the characters are all charming and memorable especially Mulan herself who stands out as easily the best Disney heroine of all time. her sidekick Mushu voiced by the very talented Eddie Murphy is absolutely hilarious and a total scene stealer. the movie has many emotional and powerful scenes that to this day still make me cry every time I watch them. the movie also has many great action scenes that are always fun to watch. Mulan for me is one of the best Disney movies of all time and if you've never had the pleasure of seeing it before see it now.
Mulan was & IS STILL A WONDERFUL FILM TO WATCH!!! It has love, laughter, hope, disappointment, dark moments, fighting scenes!! Overall, it had a wonderful ending! The cast was phenomenal along with the storyline!!! A+++ Film.
One of the more unique animated features from Disney set in Ancient China during the Han dynasty. When a ruthless tribal confederation breaches the Great Wall, the Emperor has no other choice but to declare conscription in defense of his country. Fearing the safety of her elderly father, the impetuous Mulan embarks on a daring mission to take his place. Well-crafted and interesting in spots, with a recurring theme of sexism, along with some striking animation, but the film revels more in its comedic overtones (specifically Murphy's wisecracking dragon sidekick Mushu who seems suited for another film) taking away from the presumably more serious central theme. With a short running time it's easy enough to sit through, but the overall approach to the material along with some of the casting choices are certainly questionable. **½
First take: admittedly not one of my favorite films Disney has done, mostly serviceable, yet also, like with most of their films, there is an easy, watchable likeability to it, and it's never boring, it just didn't live up to other standards I may unrealistically have set.The acting: the main lead is great. She's charming and has a great voice for a kit of the songs. As do the rest. We have to sidekicks and meaning if not a tad over the top villains, and they are playing well, despite a dose of stock.The songs:
All great, all memorable, here we are treated to 3 tracks that are very catchy indeed. They all progress the story and comment on the situation. The standout is easily Make a man out of you.The Animation:
Classic hand drew beauty here. A lot of backgrounds the leap out due to their sheer size, plenty of expressive faces and a nice imperial aesthetic that blends well with the culture however accurate.The story:
Maybe it doesn't hold up as much now or has been done so many more times and better, but a story of female empowerment, especially back then, before it really blew up, should be praised and respected. Also, a character who fights for her family and what's right.Final take:
Not one loved as many others, but it is perfectly fine for anyone really. It has a nice story and good songs and looks gorgeous, but maybe after time, it proves a bit serviceable.
While predictable and blandly animated, the songs, female empowerment and Mulan herself make 'Mulan' an inspiring film.
Mulan is one of the films I watched when I was a little girl and also it is one of those films I love to this day. I don't know whether Mulan is just a legend or she really existed in the real world, but she is kind of a hero to me. I love her story of taking his father's place and went to war. It's so touching.I only know the Chinese version. So, I don't know her name really is Hua Mulan, or the surname is something and Mulan, but if it is, I'd say Disney got it wrong. I really don't like the surname Fa. Whenever I hear that surname Fa, it makes me annoyed. So, I prefer Hua.What makes me love Mulan is of course the story. And also it's amazing original score, especially, the tune of that scene where Mulan prepares herself to go to war and takes horse and leaves home. That scene is also one of my favourites.I think the original story doesn't have anything about dragon which is Mushu in this film. Disney put that part by themselves. But that part is also good too. Wherever Mushu appears, I find it quite funny. That's why I love Mushu.All in all, Mulan is an amazing animation which will never get old. Even it is, it's like old but gold. Hence, Mulan is one of those animations that everyone must watch at least once in their lives.
The flower that blooms in adversary, is the most rare of all.
Lesser Disney is still better than most other things.I feel pretty confident about calling 'Mulan' lesser. For one thing, it has no memorable songs, whereas classics like 'The Lion King' and 'Aladdin' were nothing but great songs. Plus, it features Eddie Murphy in a role very similar to the one he perfected in 'Shrek' and all its sequels.As with all Disney animated flicks, it's got a strong, albeit predictable, story.I thought it was okay, but nothing special.
This Movie Makes Me Wish There Was an 11. The plot is so amazing and the music is excellent. So many hidden gems in the screenplay and the animation. Just absolutely fantastic!
This movie is a feminist Disney movie, and for once, they actually don't screw everything up! It's as subtle as a Disney movie could possibly be. It is short and direct and great.But beyond the story, which might be the best Disney story ever (non-Pixar), it has some real flaws in my opinion.1st and worst-English? Seriously? Americans....Americans... Great story, but hearing CHINESE CHARACTERS IN CHINA SPEAKING ENGLISH? C'mon. Disney should remake the audio and incorporate the Chinese option.
2-Music: What the hell? The songs just don't rime, ever! It's insane. Or maybe I just didn't listen well.
3-Animation: Kind of great for moments, but overall not that pretty. The faces are fine, but the desings are not super pretty to be honest.
4-Jokes (some): Even if absolutely great (really, I often laugh very little with Disney jokes, and this character made me laugh and chuckle), the Eddie Murphy character broke the 'Chinese culture' feeling of the movie. It made it funnier, but a bit dumber too.
Mulan is one of the best disney princesses.In order to help her father she disguises herself as a boy.Great music,lovable characters,strong story.What more can you ask?
This is a lovely animation. My favorite part is definitely the heroine. She is brave and resourceful, and most importantly are able to make her way out of people's biases and the obstacles society has given her. It is inspiring to see a story like this coming into life and capture people's eyes. Not only that, this story is also very refreshing and totally hilarious. It's very colorful and its characters like the lucky cricket and Mulan's three troop friends are so lovable. Mushu is just straight fun. Some feminism movies tells a very heavy story where the heroine overcomes great adversities with blood and tears. That is great in its own way; however an animation like this truly shows an optimistic, quick-to-act vibe that cheers me up and brings lots of hope. Great movie!
The movie, Mulan, starts when a messenger named Chi-Fu is sent to everyone in China from the emperor, including Mulan's village.The emperor is asking for all men to fight and protect the country, for they are about to engage in a time of war. Mulan being the sweet, noble, caring daughter that she is, she realizes her father is now too old to fight and would die in combat. She makes the decision to sneak out the next morning with her father's armor and to take his place in the Imperial army with hopes of bringing honor to her family. And because of that she encounters a small red dragon named Mushu, who would become her trusty sidekick. Despite the fact that this one of the only Disney movies with a heroine, the film, written by Robert D. San Souci, and directed by Barry Cook and Tony Bancroft, successfully portrays the character developing into a brave young woman.A great deal of people put the movie Mulan in a negative light because throughout the film Mulan does many things such as, disobey her parents wishes, destroy the emperors palace, lie to her superiors, and run away from home. These actions are not something people want their children watching nor repeating. Along with that Mulan tries to justify her actions by saying she was staying 'true to her heart', which is supposed to make everything okay because she had good intentions. The movie does not make it look like its a bad thing because all Mulan's inappropriate actions ended up saving China and everything wrong she did looked great. Which of course only happens in Disney movies, not in reality. There have been a lot of raised eyebrows and concerns among critics who don't view rebellious Chinese teenager, Mulan as a good role model for young kids or young girls. Worrying that children will because of Mulan believe it is okay to disobey or lie as long as they have good intentions. But it is not Mulan's defiance that makes her cool or a good role model, it is her bravery in certain situations, overcoming her disadvantages, and bringing honor to her family by overcoming fear. Some critics feel that the film Mulan also discriminates against women and throughout the film puts women second to men. Juliane Fang writes, 'This is exemplified in an argument between Shang (Chinese army captain) and Chi-Fu (Emperor's adviser) , when Shang says, 'she's a hero!' and Chi-Fu responds with, 'she's a woman! She'll never be worth anything!' Despite the negative attitude towards woman, Juliane Fang adds that Mulan is still the hero in the end. However, she only became a hero and achieved this status by faking a masculine being. And in that, the film is stating that success is primarily a male quality.But, although, the movie demonstrates negative attitudes towards women, it does very well portray a girl developing into a woman, bringing honor to her family, and respect to herself. 'As the Emperor (Pat Morita) tells Shang after Mulan rides back to her family, 'You don't meet a girl like that every dynasty.' He's right.' Despite the movies weaknesses, the directors of the film Mulan do a good job in showing her struggles and her growth in confidence from the beginning to the end of the film. For example, Mulan is a good role model for young girls because while preparing for war all of the soldiers are brought to a camp for training. She starts off weak and slow, but she doesn't want to disappoint her family, so she becomes determined to be a good warrior. And because of that she is able to do everything the men can, you couldn't tell she was different. She is also seen as brave by her bold moves such as when she uses a rocket to shoot snow on a Clift to create a landslide effect and wipe out the enemies. These parts of thre movie are positive for young children and teen girls. These certain scenes reveal Mulan's bravery and courage.Futhermore, the film successfully portrays a young girl overcoming obstacles, the emotions she felt during those obstacles, as well as the good result after doing what she felt was right. The movie has a positive influence on children, especially Mulan's sidekick, Mushu, who makes the film so much more enjoyable. And he is a perfect balance of rebellion and humor, to not make parents raise an eyebrow at the film and question its message. Even though the Disney Film Mulan incorporates doubtful situations and mirrors gender discrimination, its natural humor makes it easy to connect and relate to the movie. The depiction of the main character's emotions throughout the movie make it far exceed the others with a strong heroine role. This film demonstrates a role model for young kids and teen girls, and strikes certain emotions that are not typical for family films, reinforcing that Mulan is not a typical Disney movie.
The movie, Mulan, starts when a messenger named Chi-Fu is sent to everyone in China from the emperor, including Mulan's village.The emperor is asking for all men to fight and protect the country, for they are about to engage in a time of war. Mulan being the sweet, noble, caring daughter that she is, she realizes her father is now too old to fight and would die in combat. She makes the decision to sneak out the next morning with her father's armor and to take his place in the Imperial army with hopes of bringing honor to her family. And because of that she encounters a small red dragon named Mushu, who would become her trusty sidekick. Despite the fact that this one of the only Disney movies with a heroine, the film, written by Robert D. San Souci, and directed by Barry Cook and Tony Bancroft, successfully portrays the character developing into a brave young woman.A great deal of people put the movie Mulan in a negative light because throughout the film Mulan does many things such as, disobey her parents wishes, destroy the emperors palace, lie to her superiors, and run away from home. These actions are not something people want their children watching nor repeating. Along with that Mulan tries to justify her actions by saying she was staying 'true to her heart', which is supposed to make everything okay because she had good intentions. The movie does not make it look like its a bad thing because all Mulan's inappropriate actions ended up saving China and everything wrong she did looked great. Which of course only happens in Disney movies, not in reality. There have been a lot of raised eyebrows and concerns among critics who don't view rebellious Chinese teenager, Mulan as a good role model for young kids or young girls. Worrying that children will because of Mulan believe it is okay to disobey or lie as long as they have good intentions. But it is not Mulan's defiance that makes her cool or a good role model, it is her bravery in certain situations, overcoming her disadvantages, and bringing honor to her family by overcoming fear. Some critics feel that the film Mulan also discriminates against women and throughout the film puts women second to men. Juliane Fang writes, 'This is exemplified in an argument between Shang (Chinese army captain) and Chi-Fu (Emperor's adviser) , when Shang says, 'she's a hero!' and Chi-Fu responds with, 'she's a woman! She'll never be worth anything!' Despite the negative attitude towards woman, Juliane Fang adds that Mulan is still the hero in the end. However, she only became a hero and achieved this status by faking a masculine being. And in that, the film is stating that success is primarily a male quality.But, although, the movie demonstrates negative attitudes towards women, it does very well portray a girl developing into a woman, bringing honor to her family, and respect to herself. 'As the Emperor (Pat Morita) tells Shang after Mulan rides back to her family, 'You don't meet a girl like that every dynasty.' He's right.' Despite the movies weaknesses, the directors of the film Mulan do a good job in showing her struggles and her growth in confidence from the beginning to the end of the film. For example, Mulan is a good role model for young girls because while preparing for war all of the soldiers are brought to a camp for training. She starts off weak and slow, but she doesn't want to disappoint her family, so she becomes determined to be a good warrior. And because of that she is able to do everything the men can, you couldn't tell she was different. She is also seen as brave by her bold moves such as when she uses a rocket to shoot snow on a Clift to create a landslide effect and wipe out the enemies. These parts of thre movie are positive for young children and teen girls. These certain scenes reveal Mulan's bravery and courage.Futhermore, the film successfully portrays a young girl overcoming obstacles, the emotions she felt during those obstacles, as well as the good result after doing what she felt was right. The movie has a positive influence on children, especially Mulan's sidekick, Mushu, who makes the film so much more enjoyable. And he is a perfect balance of rebellion and humor, to not make parents raise an eyebrow at the film and question its message.
Even though the Disney Film Mulan incorporates doubtful situations and mirrors gender discrimination, its natural humor makes it easy to connect and relate to the movie. The depiction of the main character's emotions throughout the movie make it far exceed the others with a strong heroine role. This film demonstrates a role model for young kids and teen girls, and strikes certain emotions that are not typical for family films, reinforcing that Mulan is not a typical Disney movie.
If 'Mulan' was made today, instead of reviewing her lesson for the Lady matchmaker, she would be found trying some new moves with her father's sword. And the song 'Reflection' would include a chorus where Fa Mulan would pull a 'Let it Go' and say 'But What I (Really) Want is...'.If 'Mulan' was made today, the grandmother would have sided with Mulan all along and encourage her to follow her dreams. Which leads me to think that she wouldn't have alerted the family when Mulan left home to go fighting instead of Fa Zhou and maybe we wouldn't even have Mushu.Speaking of Mushu, if 'Mulan' was made today, we certainly wouldn't have Eddie Murphy as the voice actor. Though I'm not sure they would have made the effort to cast one Asian actor for every single character, the scene-stealing sidekick would have certainly been voiced by an Asian-American star. And why not? Listening to the little red dragon, I was wondering whether it was Axel Folley or the Donkey who got caught in a time loop that took him to the Han dynasty... and I wonder why they didn't try to get Jackie Chan for the part (was he that busy with 'Rushmore'?)If 'Mulan' was made today, we wouldn't have the cricket because he would be as needless in 2018 than he was in 1998...If 'Mulan' was made today, she would have been a natural-born warrior impressing the soldiers with her skills from the very start instead of being that 'adorkable' unexperienced maiden trying to pass for a man. Everything would have been done to tone-down the effect of her cross-dressing and reduce it to the cutting of her hair.Speaking of which, if 'Mulan' was made today, I'm not sure we'd have that badass synthetized score during the dressing moment. Not even sure we'd have so much music that scream 'Nineties' (and yes, it came from Jerry Goldsmith, of all the composers!)If 'Mulan' was made today, a song like 'Like a Man' wouldn't exist. (I wish they would keep the tune though because it's catchy as hell).If 'Mulan' was made today, Shan-Yu wouldn't have been turned into such a scary-looking villain in case it might offend Hunnish populations.Now that one is risky: if 'Mulan' was made today, would there be a romance? Would they keep the character of the young captain Shan?Let's face it, 'Mulan' is perhaps one of the few Disney movies where we don't get one but two heroes and Shang even follows a character arc as he starts as an inexperienced and prejudiced soldier trying to fit in his father's shoes to a more tolerant person. Mulan and Shang form a rather interesting 'Yin and Yang' duo and I wonder if he would have been kept or just turned into some ruthless leader wrongly opinioned about women.Still, let's stick to the romance. If 'Mulan' was made today, would they have abandoned any prospect of a romantic relationship and avoid the possibility of two male-looking soldiers being romantically involved. Disney has so much to show, so many grounds to break, so many taboos to fight, that I don't think they would have missed that opportunity for one of the few stories involving cross-dressing. So I'll stick to my guns and say there would be a romance.That said, if 'Mulan' was made today, the romance would be one-sided and wouldn't distract Mulan from her mission. Well, as long as they keep that hilarious and risqué 'river-bathing' scene...Now, of course, if 'Mulan' was made today, it would be in 3D.But if 'Mulan' was made today, the Great Wall of China would look even greater but I don't think they could have made a more impressive sequence than Huns' epic riding over the mountains. This has got to be one of the most beautiful Disney shots from any movie ever on a pure Eisensteinian or Kurosawan level.If 'Mulan' was made today, she would still save the day by causing an avalanche but maybe the writers would have found a better way for our heroes to survive. I want Mulan, Shang, Mushu and the other fellows to live like the next watcher but there are so many insults to the laws of probability in three minutes of the avalanche sequences than maybe all the Renaissance Disney pictures of Disney. And my disbelief was suspended by a looser rope than the one thrown from over a cliff to land on Harvey Fiernstein's head.If 'Mulan' was made today, the climax would have kept the concubine cross-dressing but would have ended with an iron-crossing fight between Mulan and Shao-li.If 'Mulan' was made today, she would have accepted the job as the Emperor's counselor and never get back home to become a maiden again. Hell, Shang wouldn't have followed her. Wait a minute, of course he wouldn't have... since he's not supposed to exist so it all makes sense that Mulan ends up a counselor, then a general, then maybe the new Empress of China.In fact, if 'Mulan' was made today, there would be at least two or three extra female characters, maybe Shao-li would have a daughter who would have been the real nemesis, maybe Mulan would have a little sister (all right I cheated for that one) or maybe the empowering message would have been even more explicit, like 'Brave', 'Frozen' and 'Moana' and would make 1998 Mulan original look like Snow White...My question is: are there any girls who still don't give a damn about being warriors? Mulan did that out of love for her father and I just hope that will still be the key motive in the 2020 versions but I do expect a few changes to remind me how far we are from 1998... when Mulan was considered a progressive movie.It's a matter of opinion but I believe it is.
This movie is a grest flick. There are some problems, but it is a very nice movie. I like the soundtrack and love that visual look. It has the style of Hercules and Pocohatas. A kind of hybrid. Mulan is a great character and Mushi is also a decent comic relief. The three guy soilders who are frienss with Mulan arw charming. But thats about it. I didn't really like the villan or the love interest very much. But I do like the story. An over all decent, very well made disney film.
In a Chinese family with no male children, daughter disguises herself as a male and goes to war against Huns instead of her elderly father. Hilarious Eddie Murphy lends his voice to her sidekick, a clumsy little red dragon. The story is interesting, with lots of Disney humor, but also a good message. Essentially, this is 'coming of age' and 'women empowerment' drama, but shown in a typical Disney way, to the extent that even this girl warrior can be classified among the Disney Princesses. I had the impression that someone forced them to make a 'women empowerment' movie, and then they did their best to disguise it as much as possible. I know that Disney movies are primarily intended for children, but still I think they banalized it too much. Also, I did not like the animation, but the music is excellent. Overall, a pretty good movie and a big step out of the comfort zone for Disney.7,5/10
Since I recently saw this movie again during a seminars day at my school, and since I was unsatisfied with my first review of this movie, I have decided to rewrite it. It was a slow Halloween despite a costume-con in my school's atrium, but conveniently it quieted down as this movie began. So why is this movie better than I initially remembered it?The story, admittedly, does utilize some clichés (especially in its twists), but its structure is very solid overall. It flows affably and delivers on the humor, courtesy of its voice acting (I loved Miguel Ferrer's portrayal of Shan Yu) and the way it wrote its comic reliefs. Not only do these reliefs provide some good chuckles, but Mushu in particular is important to the plot due to his fire breathing and mentoring of Mulan. For our characters, we have the titular Mulan as the woman who wants to deliver more than what is expected of her by any means necessary, Li Shang as her tough yet fair CO, and Shan Yu as a genuinely threatening and bad@$$ villain with, again, an intimidating and all-around awesome voice. Most other characters outside of the Fa family, the Emperor, and Chi Fu are either summed up in tropes (Mulan's trio of friends) or just not important to the main story. Our main characters are memorable and complex, just as we expect from a Disney movie. Even 20 years later, the animation still resonates with its depiction of ancient China, its moderately thrilling action, its appealing character designs, its commitment to the humor, and its enhancement of the songs. It's smooth and perfectly fluid to give the human characters realism, and does enough with its effects and stylization of the animal characters to make them believable in their world. The songs are forgettable in comparison to other Disney songs of the period, but they are very fun to listen to, don't interrupt the plot flow, and make the montages easy to remember, more so than the songs themselves.Mulan, at least for me, comes off as one of the few Disney movies where one more easily understands it if they view it as they grow older. Young children may remember the songs, Mushu's jokes, some sight gags, and the action, while older children may point out that Mulan is a solid role model. As such, if your family has children of various ages, this would be a safe bet for movie nights. It is a worthwhile addition to Disney collections, even if VP Pence doesn't think highly of it.
This was another gem from the Disney vault. It was a story about a lady in China who poses as a man and take her father's place in the Chinese army during a Hun invasion. There are themes about fitting in and redemption in it. Eddie Murphy's comic relief dragon character was ok. This will appeal to any fan of animated Disney films, as it has outstanding stories,songs, and characters.
My 20th birthday is today, so in honor of the year, I am writing reviews of movies from that year.Disney released this movie, Mulan, 2 months prior. And it's very good.If you have not seen this movie, you must not be near my age. The story, then, if that is the case, follows Mulan, a Chinese girl who is upset that she can't 'honor' her family, which is proven after failing the expectations of a matchmaker, who is seeking a proper husband for her. So when war is proclaimed, she disguises herself as a man to fight in place of her sickly father. What positives can I say about Mulan? Well, it's a Disney movie. It has a great story, songs, and the animation is great.It has some of the most memorable songs(Roger Ebert would disagree, it lost half a star from him for that.) Such songs include: Reflection, A Girl Worth Fighting For,Honor To Us All,and my personal favorite: Make A Man Out Of You.(Which made me cry as a kid, for some reason.) Most of the cast members you may not not know, Ming-Na Wen(known for The Joy Luck Club) voices Mulan.(Would you have known that had I not told you?) The most famous one stands out, not just for his popularity, but since it's this comedian's only G-rated movie on his resume. Mushu, Mulan's dragon(not lizard) partner-is voiced by none other than Eddie Murphy. Yes- Raw, Delirious,Harlem Nights, etc.-then Mulan.Mulan is a great Disney movie-and if you have not seen it, then you should.
I've always loved this movie. Great music, compelling story, very funny. What's not to like?
My sweetheart is a big Disney fan. So over the handful of years we've been together I've found my self watching a good deal of animation i would otherwise have ignored. Moana, Coco and Ratatouille left me with an unexpected sense of joy. Stylish stories with a quiet moral woven into the back ground.
Mulan, though set in China, feels like a cheap Chinese restaurant in California. If you are making a film set in a foreign culture? You should do your leg work and get the feel right. Simply putting the family name first on a character and making some assumptions about honour does not cut it for Chinese. This movie felt like a good B grade western with a thin Chinese theme pasted over the top.
Then there's the message. The movie is obviously trying to put a woman up as a heroine. A 'lady triumphs and wins the respect of the men' happy ending story. But really the only message here, is that if you're a woman and want to be judged as an equal, you need to be as good as three men to even stand a chance.
Add to this some expected cheesy Disney moments and Eddie Murphy being a little over the top and I was left with a passable but hollow feeling.
I was wary at first when I first started watching Mulan as back in 1998 when the film was released, there was not much positively said towards women in society so I did not have much hope that this movie would be able to pull off such a powerful women lead back in a time when women were perceived to be lower down in class compared to men. However, this movie starts out to be one of the best female lead movies that I have watched in a long time. Going by the time in which the movie was made Pam Coats did an amazing job for producing the movie and Barry Cook and Tony Bancroft brilliantly directed the movie in a way to focus on Mulan's journey from a small maiden to a warrior of the army in China and receiving praise from the emperor. This film is a fantastic movie to show the power then women can hold and the equality that should be faced towards both men and women. This film is still relevant in todays society across the globe and could easier be names as one of the best Disney movies that have been created.
It's a very interesting movie. I've seen it many times.
Mulan was a fun, exciting movie with great visuals, great characters, great music, and a great story. While the story was perhaps a bit generic, it was still very well done, and it had a great deal of funny moments. At times, the story got considerably dark. Shan Yu is really underrated as a villain. Some of his scenes and lines are downright terrifying, and they add brilliantly to the atmosphere of the movie.
Mulan Worldview Analysis 
In the Disney movie Mulan, the hero is in fact named Fa Mulan. Her goal at first is to give her family honor by being able to be matched with a good husband. When that plan doesn't work out, she then comes back home to find out her father is having to be sent off to war to fight the Hun army. Her goal then shifts to taking her father's place in the army by disguising herself as a boy and bringing her family honor in that way. That fact that she is a woman in the army disguising herself as a man is her character flaw because it eventually leads to her 'apparent defeat.' The apparent defeat happens after fighting the Huns and the main adversary, Shan Yu. She is discovered as being a woman after being injured in battle and is left there for dead by her love interest, and the general, Li Shang. After you think all is lost, her and her guardian from the ancestors named Mushu, discover that the Huns are planning to attack the emperor of China. She rushes down to China, as a woman now, and is faced with the final confrontation with Shan Yu and after an intense battle, she defeats him. The revelation of the hero is that even though she is a woman, she is just as tough as any other man in the army. The whole country sees that as well and bows down to her in the end. In conclusion, the moral of this movie is that women are just as strong as men and possibly even stronger. A woman can do anything a man can do and this movie teaches equality of the sexes. 
The movie gave a lot of supporting evidence to prove the moral of the story. At first, when she goes off to war disguised as a guy, she is stumbling around and can't fight very well. After training though she becomes one of the best warriors in their group and even saves Li Shang from his down death. She also defeats the Hun's leader Shan Yu and saves China which proves a woman can do anything a man can do. I agree with this message and I wouldn't do anything different, I think they prove that point very well. Also, I believe this movie ultimately celebrates goodness in the end because Mulan realizes women are just as powerful as men and she is liberated. Another way this movie celebrates goodness is she is the hero and defeats the evil Huns who are killing people. 
In this movie, I don't believe Christianity is expressed very much, if at all. I think this movie depicts more Chinese traditions and religions through the use of praying to ancestors, several mentions of meditation, and defending family honor. The ancestors, though, are the main thing I want to focus on as an example. Not only do they pray to the ancestors for help and guidance, but we also see the ancestors come to life. They actually also end up sending a guardian named Mushu to go and protect Mulan. I think this is saying that the way we should live and the human condition is that we should look to our ancestors for help and guidance. The movie is saying our ancestors will ultimately be there to protect us even when they have passed on to the afterlife. This does not agree with the Bible because the Bible says that Jesus is ultimately the one who can save and guide us through our life by praying to him alone. 
The redemption revealed in this movie is that Mulan finally gets to be comfortable in her own skin. She fights with the guys as her true self and gets to be liberated in the fact that she is just a tough as the guys. I think it completely departs from biblical truth because biblical redemption is accepting Jesus as your Lord and Savior and being baptized to be born again. Even though this is true, I think this movie's message is a positive element of this movie. This movie is empowering to women and a good lesson to teach little girls that they don't have to feel less than any man. It is also positive to have the message to have people feel comfortable in their own skin. I think some negative elements of this movie are the sexism that is portrayed in the movie and the religion depicted not being Christian. If you think about it, if she was a woman who couldn't fight at all and hid as a boy in the military only to get caught, she would have died for sure. Despite this, in conclusion, I believe you can recommend this movie to all ages because it is a very funny and quality Disney movie.
After watching Hercules, I wondered what was next for Disney. Then this showed up. I'd never even heard of the Chinese legend of Mulan before the movie but it sounded like an interesting premise. And since I'm Chinese-American, albeit half, it's like visiting one of my homelands. Plus, it has a female protagonist who isn't just another damsel in distress or another girlish princess. This is the heroine that works on so many levels. Not only that, there's also a wisecracking dragon (voiced by Eddie Murphy, and one of the few films I enjoyed of his) and many Asian-American actors and actresses in the cast (some of them are actually Japanese, but they did well). And some decent songs and the themes of family and honor. It's quite the feast for the eyes. If you are in the mood for a strong female lead or an Asian-styled adventure or both, look no further!
As older Disney cartoons go, this is one of the better ones. The animation, characters, and story are all well-done and entertaining. This movie is funny and dramatic. There's a fun montage in there and a dragon. The only things really holding it back are some historical inaccuracies (we watched this move in Global when we were learning about China's history in high school and the teacher made sure to point out how much this movie got wrong) and some stupid moments. Overall this movie is very entertaining and I'd recommend it.
I loved this movie when I was younger and I still love watching it with my girls now.
Continuing my Plan to watch every Eddie Murphy movie in order, I come to Mulan (1998)Plot In A Paragraph: To save her father from certain death in the army, Mulan, a young maiden, secretly goes in his place and becomes one of China's greatest heroines in the process.To get in the mood, I watched this with my girlfriends daughter. This is a forgotten Disney movie. For whatever reason, most of Disney's releases in the 90's post Lion King have faded into obscurity. 20 years ahead of its time!! A brave heroine, funny, loyal animal sidekicks and the whole message here is standard feminist empowerment. Release the same movie today, and it would probably be amongst the highest grossers of the year.Like Robin Williams in Aladdin Murphy is second billed as the the comedy sidekick. He is Muchu, a dragon so small, he is confused for a lizard. And like Williams, he is the only recognisable voice, and is the best thing in the movie. I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought I would, and I actually got chills at one point. I especially liked that it didn't follow the traditional Disney ending.Murphy was hit by a scandal just before this movie's release, He was stopped by police for picking up a transvestite prostitute in a bad part of Hollywood. But that didn't effect the movie at all as Mulan was amongst the highest grossers of Murphy's career at that point. It was a sign of things to come for him. Mulan Grossed $120 million at the domestic box office to end 1998 as the 13th highest grossing movie of the year.
The famous movie of historical Asian history, Mulan, directed by Tony Bancroft, is a movie of a woman named Mulan taking the place of her father in war. Being a woman automatically disqualifies her as a soldier, and throughout the movie it is obvious that women are not looked at the same way that men are. Mulan's plot demotes women but its protagonist rejects this assumption to conclude that women can do whatever a man is able. In the beginning of the movie, Mulan, the main character, is continuously put down because of her female being. The movie begins with Mulan practicing to impress a match maker that will match her with her future husband. When her professional stylist is getting her ready for the big event; the stylist implies that Mulan is a sexual object. Throughout their song the stylist says, 'Boys will go to war for you if you're pretty, obedient, and have a tiny waist. You should demonstrate dignity, be poised and be silent.' The stylist is implying that the only way a woman should be appealing is by obtaining these qualities. Personally, being a woman myself, this portrait of woman-expectancy that reveals the sexism that is present in this movie, makes me question what young boys take away from this particular section of this movie. To add on, when Mulan steps up to go into war for her father, she is still looked down on for doing the impossible. Her ancestors say, 'Mulan's father, forever shall be shamed because a woman is taking her place in war.' Mulan is willingly taking the place of her injured father. This act is noble if a man were to do it; however, this movie suggests that it is shameful for a woman to perform the same honorable act. When Mulan is preparing to face the other soldiers, her male horse laughs in her face for trying to act as male. Animals are treated as less than humans and the way that the horse demotes Mulan portrays women as being even less than an animal; proving the sexism further. In the song that plays when the men are getting ready for war, Li Shang, the captain of the troops, says 'Did they send me daughters, when I asked for sons?' Li Shang is downgrading women without realizing that Mulan is in his presence. A great amount of sexism goes on throughout the plot of this movie coming in the form of humans and even animals. Even though Mulan faces an enormous amount of unbelievable sexism, she proves that she can do whatever a man is able to do. When going through training, she comes in last and lags behind the other soldiers. However, as time goes on, she trains hard enough to become first in the races and training practices. Also, when in battle, Mulan is first in line with all the men behind her. She selflessly goes head first into the opposing army's soldiers in order to swiftly beat them in battle. Mulan uses logical alternatives to excel farther than the men in her troops and on the opposing army. Though, scientifically, Mulan is not physically matched to the male soldiers, she substitutes her smart antics to fly high. Mulan's plot degrades women, however the main character changes this thought, helping women to realize that they can match anything that a man is capable of. I think that this movie begins with a large amount of demotion towards women but there is a satisfying ending to this assumption. Mulan proves that women are capable of more than being a trophy wife, and this is proved every day in the twenty first century. Women are CEOs and military lieutenants, which manifests their ultimate capability. Women are powerful and can do anything that they put their mind to. And if every woman realized this, sexism would not exist.
The story of Hua Mulan is probably not that well known outside China, Taiwan and Hong Kong, so most of the world will very likely only know Disney's adaptation. The title character is admirable enough, refusing to conform to traditional gender roles. My favorite character was Mushu, given an over-the-top personality by Eddie Murphy.Around the time that it got released, I remember reading about people of Asian descent who were unhappy with some of the depictions in 'Mulan'. I suspect that every movie has something that can come across as insensitive. Overall, the movie is enjoyable enough. As usual, I didn't pay much attention to the songs, instead concentrating on the action.The rest of the cast includes B. D. Wong (Dr. Wu in 'Jurassic Park'), June Foray (voice of Rocky the Squirrel) and George Takei (indelible as Sulu on 'Star Trek', he later wrote a Broadway musical about the internment of the Japanese people in the US during WWII).
Great music score and songs, twisted plot, fun dialogues, brilliant voice cast, and most importantly, fantastic animation techniques, together form 'Mulan', one of Disney's best movies of all time.It is really an incredible super-heroine movie whose story originated in Asia. I love every aspect of it, especially the theme song 'I'll Make a Man Out of You'.
I've considered Mulan (and Tarzan) to be the last great animated Disney features to be produced. A lot of comparison has been made between Mulan and Pocahontas in that most fans and critics consider Mulan to be a better film. While I do think Pocahontas is a great film, I do agree with that sentiment. Both films feature a strong and admirable heroine that break the mold of what their respective societies expect them to adhere to. Mulan is more successful in portraying the theme of breaking the gender roles. And Disney didn't whitewash the historical realities of how women were treated in Ancient China, which conveyed the theme so much stronger. Another aspect that makes Mulan a much more enjoyable film are the songs. Virtually every song (even the deleted songs) are very catchy and memorable.The supporting characters are also very memorable. Eddie Murphy seems like a curious choice for Mushu, but it works so well. Chein Po, Ling, and Yao bring comic relief to the trials of basic training and also to the dramatic war scenes. Disney had gone back to the appealing cartoony designs, reminiscent of their golden age animated features, at the start of the renaissance. However, like their films of the 1950's, they moved toward realistic designs for the human characters starting with Pocahontas. I believe this was a factor as to why Pocahontas was not as successful as say Beauty and the Beast or Aladdin, because the drawing style lacked that Disney charm. In Mulan, only the comic relief characters (i.e Chein Po, Ling, and Yao) are drawn with that exaggerated cartoony look.Speaking of gender roles, this is a Disney film, billed as a 'Princess' film in later years, that can be enjoyed by both genders. In theory girls can appreciate the theme of hardship and pressure she goes through to fit the criteria of becoming an ideal woman and bride, while boys can enjoy the thrilling war scenes that are so brilliantly executed. But, both boys and girls alike can admire Mulan for her feat of twice taking down an entire army (almost single handed) that threatens her country.
When I still watch Disney animated movies, it is because I think there is more to them than just great animation and family entertainment. Mulan has shown me that real life issues can be handled in a way so we can translate those problems into a visual delivery. Therefore I will highlight some points for which Mulan should get more recognition.Mulan shows us the generally male dominated culture we live in (the Chinese setting is secondary). Mulan is a good role model for young girls, because she acts instead of just being pretty and waiting for her prince to save her (Snow White and Sleeping Beauty for example). The horrors of war is also visually shown when Li Shang and his army finds the dead bodies of his father and the other soldiers. It is a brilliant scene which seldom is mentioned in various 'scariest Disney moments'-countdowns. Those are the messages I feel are underrated. Now for some quick technical aspects I see as great. The Hun army's run down the mountain side is incredible, when the crowd in front of the emperor's palace bows is also great and the scene in which the Chinese army finishes the song 'A Girl Worth Fighting for' and discovers the burned down village. However, I would have liked to see more of the terror of the Huns. Shan Yu was not that memorable (I still find him scary, though).
I actually got this film on video and saw it, and it was an interesting film or story shall we say. They made a sequel afterwards, but that wasn't required, and had the producers not done that, then the Mulan film would've held more weight, and that is why I don't rate Mulan as good as the Lion King, Aladdin and even Hercules. The characters introduced in this film were good - the best was that fiery red dragon named as Mushu! it was that dragon why this film was so successful. My favourite part was that battle or clash! The music was wonderful as well.
Disney did it again. With the right blend of humor, romance, action, and most of all, emotion. Watching this now is quite the different experience than when I first saw it as a child. I understand more fully the cultural and familial obstacles presented against Mulan. I noticed some things that I didn't catch the first viewing. Again, Mulan is a tale of identity, about trying to find out and discover who you are. Like Hercules, The Lion King, The Little Mermaid, Frozen, you name it, Disney is all about identity and rising against the norm and what society expects of you. Obviously, as it's a Western commercial production, it makes many cross-cultural flaws -- the characters have too-exaggerated facial features to supposed to look Chinese, for instance.It being Disney, its soundtrack is amazing, we all know 'I'll Make a Man out of You' and 'Reflection,' just to name two. It has a great voice acting cast (i.e. Eddie Murphy as Mushu), and it ends very happily for all the good guys. Some things are a little rushed, I thought, towards the end concerning certain characters but still, Mulan is a film you need to see, no matter what your age. It will impel you to strike forth against the societal construct we know as 'normal,' that is, to be like everybody else. Who gives a damn about what other people think? You only have one life. Make the most of it, carpe diem.Everything taken into account, Mulan I'd say surpasses Hercules, but lies below The Lion King. Worth watching a second (or first) time when you're at least of high school age.

**** *YEAR_2000

My first ever exposure to Monsters, Inc. Was when we had gone to McDonald's and I got a Mike Wazowski toy. I was really scared of it, and my sister used to often scare me with it. Little did I know that Mike is supposed to be the comic relief of the movie. Later on I saw the trailer, and eventually the whole movie. And now I can say with a guarantee that Monsters Inc is one of the better Disney movies. Sure there are some things I didn't like (which I will talk about later) but other than those things, this is absolutely perfect.One thing I really like about Pixar is that they always take one thing we like from our lives and then expand it into a full blown story. You play with toys? There's Toy Story. You like fishes and the ocean? There's Finding Nemo. You like cars? There's...well, Cars. So similarly over here we were all afraid of monsters coming into our rooms when we were sleeping alone as kids, and that's what this movie is based on. Unlike the conventional monsters who want to kill us, these monsters are working for a power company who just use children's screams for powering up their world.The story revolves around Sullivan and his best friend Mike Wazowski, who work at Monsters, Inc. Sully is a professional scarer while Mike collects the screams from the children. However, there is one rule that the monsters must abide by - children should not learn about their world otherwise they will no longer be scared and the monster world will run out of energy. Things go down very badly when Mike and Sully find out that Sully accidentally brought a little girl named Boo back to their world. Meanwhile Randall, the second best scarer and Sully's rival, is making a scream extractor which will help him extract the most screams and make him the best employee.The movie is twenty years old and still the world shown here is very dynamic even by today's standards. The third act where Sully, Mike, Boo and Randall are jumping from one door to another was very cool. The animation is also very good, especially the fact that every single hair on Sully's body is distinguishable, and all the pores on Randall's body can be seen. The comic timing is also great, like the part where Randall says, 'Say hello to my scream extractor!' and Mike immediately says 'Hello.'. And also the part where Sully thinks Boo got crushed so he faints just as the emotional music starts playing.Now like I said, there are a couple of things I didn't like in this movie, which is what stopped me from giving it a perfect score. First of all I really liked Randall. He was my favourite character in the whole movie. He looks cool, his superpowers are admirable and he's stronger than he looks. But he still loses to humans. First with Boo, who is literally a child who can't even speak. And then by grown humans who beat him with a broom in the end. It would have been better if he got stuck in the middle of nowhere like he made Sully and Mike do so. And the second thing is the part where they are in Nepal. That was boring to say the least.Monsters, Inc. Is one of those movies that can be enjoyed by both children and adults. It is very rare for a Disney movie to be that way nowadays, so it can be revisited back even today. Like I said, its animation has aged very well, which is why it is so much fun to watch it without feeling something is off. And it has a sequel too, something it took me too long to learn about. I really liked it compared to most movies Disney has been making nowadays.
This is one of the best kids movies I have seen. It's a great story about Monsters doing what they feel is right even if its wrong to their company they are working for. I personally loved the bond that was created between Sully and Boo.
Another masterpiece by Disney Pixar. A nice watch.
If I had to describe Monsters Inc. For one word for me it would be likable, it's just such an easy movie to like from the story, to the humor, and to the characters this is just such an easy movie to like. First of all while it is a reusable concept of monsters scaring kids while hiding in their closet they add a twist that they need to power there world with screams and it adds why in a sense while it's wrong to scare kids you see why they do it it's just their job. The next reason why this movie is so likable is the humor which in my personal opinion this is easily Pixar's funniest movie with hilarious running gags, great one liners, and just funny situations for the characters to be in. The final reason why this movie is so likable are the characters Mike and Sulley are such a likable duo with different personalities to compare and contrast to one another and their friendship is fantastic also with Boo the girl who they accidentally left out is not annoying and is funny and adorable together and also there are tons of great characters in this movie to count but I would be here all day telling people what I like about each of them. In the end Monsters Inc. Is a personal favorite of mine because it's just such an easy to like and to rewatch and it is without a doubt in my opinion one of Pixar's best movies. Overall grade= A+.
It would have been better if I had watched it when I was a kid, but unfortunately I did not watch it in my childhood years, and I've been putting it off until now. I decided to watch it today. Even though I watched it when I was 25, it is a very nice, funny, meaningful animation. If I have a child one day, I will definitely make him watch it.
This cartoon is a masterpiece, it is one of those cartoons that are essential for a child to see. The cartoon has a great and beautiful moral and if seen as a child it can even slightly scare.
Mike Wazowski Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski
Mike Wazowski.
Another amazing movie from a great studio that truly knows what they're doing.
How is it possible that some people DON'T like this movie? Do you have a soul? This was so nostalgic to finally watch again after all these years, and I can confirm that this is one of the better Pixar films. I didn't actually realize that I liked it as much as I did until this rewatch. I also forgot how perfect the ending was, one of the best animated endings ever. It's also gotta be one of the most heartwarming stories ever, and the funniest Pixar film so far. As I'm getting older, I'm starting to see the deeper themes and adulthood issues these Pixar films are exploring, which is always interesting. At the end of the day, this is and will always be a childhood classic of my generation and hopefully many generations to come.
Monsters inc was the first movie I ever watched as a kid and to this day I still absolutely love it. It is by far one of the most iconic pixar films ever made and I absolutely still believe it holds up today as one of the best animated movies ever made. From the amazing voice acting to the amazing animation even for the time. This movie is just classic and nobody can hate it. I love the story and the clever designs and quirks behind it all. It's just amazing story telling and brilliant design work as always from Pixar. Mike is easily one of my favourite characters of all time and I love his so much. Billy Crystal is absolutely brilliant and his energy is what makes Mike such a great character. I would say this movie is amazing but everyone should know that by now, everyone who loves movies has seen this film and it will be forever a timeless classic! Fantastic movie and I can't wait to watch Monsters at work!
Monsters Inc is an amazing film with great characters, script, and animation. The voice acting casting was perfect. It wasn't over the top with the jokes and they were perfect in their timing. The story is completely original and Pixar nails it with making sure there isn't a dull moment from the beginning. Definitely one of Pixar's best.Overall, 9/10.
I've been a fan of this kid in this cartoon for 20 years.
I love Monsters, Inc so much that I love the characters, music, animation, and heart. In the story, James P. Sullivan (also known as Sulley) and his best friend Mike Wazowski, work at the eponymous electricity producing factory in Monstropolis, Monsters, Incorporated. Sulley works as the top Scarer where he is known for sneaking into children's bedrooms behind their closet doors, scare them and collect their screams in special yellow canisters and produce electricity for the city, while Mike works as Sulley's assistant. Together, they collect more screams than any other monster. Their success makes their boss, Henry J. Waternoose, and fellow employees: Roz, the slug dispatcher at the Scare Floor, Celia Mae, the receptionist and Mike's girlfriend, very proud, but it makes their chief rival, Randall Boggs, very, very jealous. One evening, after a routine day on the Scare Floor, Sulley discovers that Randall has left a door behind on the Scare Floor, but when he opens it, he inadvertently lets a little human girl into his world. After a failed attempt to get her back home, Sulley has no choice but to bring the kid home. Back home, he and Mike discover that the girl is not toxic and dangerous as they thought human children were. Now, Mike and Sulley disguise the girl they call 'Boo' and must affectionately care for her and find a way to bring her back home. But on the way, they discover that Randall is plotting to take over the monster world by kidnapping human kids and try to suck their screams out of their mouths by using a device called the Scream Extractor. Now, Sulley, Mike, and Boo must save the monster world and Monsters, Inc from the clutches of Randall and must bring Boo back home to be safe. The way I love Monsters, Inc is because that monsters are not really scary at all and we humans have to overcome their fears and believe in them.
I watched and liked this movie, this is PERFECT! Animation quality is so good.
Monsters Inc is one of my personal favorite Pixar movies growing up. This movie had a concept of how monsters scare children and what happens when they encounter a human. The execution takes to a whole new level. The story is very well written. The animation holds up a couple of decades later. The comedy is great. The characters are all memorable. And the heart really comes to the right place, especially with Sully's connection to a kid. I know it's something I'm gonna say constantly to a Pixar movie when they come out a masterpiece, but this is a movie you need to check out. I even recommend celebrating this as a 20th anniversary before Monsters At Work comes out. I have seen this movie over a hundred times in my life, and this is worth watching a lot more in the future.
I always remember loving this movie as a child, the colors, plotline, and the characters always made for an exciting watch each time.
These movies came out when all my kids were 6. 7 tears old. You don't realize until later on what it's really about....bloody sick.
A 'scarer' from the monster world forms a bond with a very young human child.This is an immensely enjoyable, feel-good movie with a clever concept, great characters and brilliantly animated storytelling.The plot is a funny and moving friendship tale with a dash of adventure, but the fantasy concept that underlies it is another fantastic idea from the Pixar writers.Monsters Inc has numerous great scenes and hilarious banter between the characters. Much like the Toy Story, it makes you laugh and chokes you up at will, such is the quality of the characterisation.One of its strengths is the thought and detail that goes into the various aspects of the monster world and how it interacts with our world. Everything that happens in Monsters Incorporated, the use of doors, screams, laughter and how characters move between worlds is superb.The visuals as you would expect from Pixar are brilliant. The characters are superbly animated with fantastic colours, textures and expressions. As for the visual storytelling, it is so good that it held my daughter for the duration of the running time when she was about two years old. The final scene in particular is incredibly well done.All the voice performances are excellent with a number of perfectly cast roles for the likes of John Goodman, Billy Crystal, Steve Buscemi, John Ratzenberger, Jennifer Tilly, James Coburn and Bob Peterson.
This movie is just perfect. Great entertainment, well made characters, fantastic script , innovative and thoughtful. They did it right in all the departments. Kudos to the director and the creative team. This movie is easily one of the finest movie ever made. Not just kids, all the age groups could enjoy watching this movie.This movie was made in 2001 and I am still enjoying in 2021.
The best animation ever made and that's because of its script
I saw it again and again.
It's hilarious, and it's sad, and the voice cast is incredible.
This is another Disney movie I'll never forget. Group it together with The Incredibles and Toy Story, and compare it to the masterpieces that were Cinderella and Snow White.
A classic Pixar film, sadly I didn't see it too often growing up as I don't think we had it on DVD I did however see it a number of times and new the rough plot, like a Bug's Life this film is really growing on me, it is really quite good.
One of my favorite Pixar movies. It is great for the entire family because it has no bad language, no sex and no real violence. It has a great cast of characters and brings to life that scary childhood experience with monsters in the closet. I like that they added a lot of adult added bits which allow the parents to have a bit of fun also.
Monsters, Inc is an absolute childhood classic of mine when I watched it age of 3 in 2008. You can't even say it out loud how great this film is because well, it basically does everything right.Our main protagonists. Mike and Sulley are a perfect duo of monsters. They both share the most funniest, craziest and even the most unbelievable performances to ever have in a Pixar film like this. Randall and Waternoose are the memorable villains of the film, you'll not forget them easily and personally, I like that Yeti character.One of the notable things in the film are the themes that combines all 'em together. It changes between happiness, mystery and sadness in which the film perfectly works with.What else can I say, Is this just for fans? No. Is this for your family? No. Is this for all the people in the world? YES!. I'm currently 16 and I've seen multiple reactions from all around the internet in which multiple fans react to this film!Either stream it in Netflix or buy it from the stores all around you. You'll not be disappointed!
Cuteee. I love this movie. Blue guy was so handsome.
After watching a lot of Disney/Pixar movies for the entirety of my childhood I realized they have a lot of strange ideas that seems to work out great for some reason, for example Finding Nemo. And this movie is one of em.Very good story with positive messages and good atmosphere. The characters were decent. The main characters have development throughout the story and the antagonists were not that bad. I think the main focus was between the dynamic of Sully and Boo. The visuals were good though the shading wasn't exactly the best. And the music was very good, exactly matched with the tone of the movie.Overall an enjoyable film. Tbh I think this movie was primarily focused on kids but a few rare adults might enjoy it just as much.Memorable:No Rewatchable: Maybe..
My favorite Disney movie out there, my obsession with it is unhealthy lol
I have watched this on my own and with my 6yr old. We both love it. I can rewatch this one over and over again no problems.The animation holds up although a bit dated. The voice acting is spot on. The pacing is great and the characters are loveable. This one of the better Disney movies out there in my opinion.
The story line is what makes it for me, then the characters next. Such a fun and clever idea.
Monsters Inc is a very funny, original, and entertaining film that never really gets old. Give it a shot if you haven't seen it yet!
The humor, kissing, and drama make this movie a worldwide hit!!!
Glad I gave this another try 20 years later. It was actually very cute, a bit campy at times but fun to watch. Wish the monsters that came to me as a kid were as cute as these 2. ;D
Monsters, Inc. is a 2001 American computer-animated comedy film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures. Featuring the voices of John Goodman, Billy Crystal, Steve Buscemi, James Coburn, Mary Gibbs and Jennifer Tilly, the film was directed by Pete Docter in his directorial debut, and executive produced by John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton. The film centers on two monsters - James P. 'Sulley' Sullivan and his one-eyed partner and best friend Mike Wazowski - employed at the titular energy-producing factory Monsters, Inc, which generates power by scaring human children. However, the monster world believes that the children are toxic, and when one sneaks into the factory, Sulley and Mike must return her home before it's too late.Docter began developing the film in 1996, and wrote the story with Jill Culton, Jeff Pidgeon and Ralph Eggleston. Stanton wrote the screenplay with screenwriter Dan Gerson. The characters went through many incarnations over the film's five-year production process. The technical team and animators found new ways to simulate fur and cloth realistically for the film. Randy Newman, who composed the music for Pixar's three prior films, returned to compose for its fourth.
The film presents us with a very original plot and excellent animation; It's not one of Pixar's best, but it's still a very good movie.
One of the best Pixar movies ever.
From the opening title scene (which is one of my favorites in all of film) you get a feel for the wackiness you'll experience in this movie. Amazing character design like Waternoose and Randall, some really good comedy, a lovely story about two coworkers making their workplace better, and a heartwarming ending all make this film truly timeless.
Pete Doctor would go onto helm several other Pixar projects-Up, Soul, Inside Out etc.-most of which are absolute top tier Pixar. I would go as far as to say that Doctor has a stronger filmography than Lasseter. His work is truly multifaceted and conceptual. Monsters, Inc. is no different. The film can be read in several ways-as metaphor for the fossil fuel crisis, a cautionary parable about capital's greed or abstract musing the relative power of emotion fear, angst vs. joy laughter. The story is endlessly inventive in its genre and blurs the boundary between fantasy, sci-fi. It's a buddy comedy, a heist plot, a fish out of water story and a coming of age tale wrapped together in some of the fastest 90 minutes in cinema. It is funny, charming, and delivers even a few scares.The animation-like always-is breathtaking. But of the early Pixar films this one has the strongest design. The denizens of the monster world straddle the line between scary, playful which is perfect for the plot. Randall is a great slimy villain and Mike is literally a goofball. The film somehow manages to feel very 1950's without being dated, creaky. There are so many visual jokes I pick up a new one now and then despite seeing the film dozens of times.But above all it is the two relationships the film is built around-Mike & Sully, Sully & Bo-are fully realized. The film is filled with emotion, pathos because as fanciful as the setting is the characters are grounded in common humanity.
This is a movie you should had seen in cinema back then in the largest hall with good sound. Two monsters must protect a child in a monster World with a twist. You get fun, few scares, suspense and an eye opening ending that makes me give the DVD a 5 for no commentary. The ending is something as M.I. 3 do not seem to happen, but at least a TV show is next.
Until now I couldn't bring myself to believe that computer animation was the equal of either stop motion animation or hand-drawn animation. All computer animated films looked a little (usually more than a little) too sterile, many were animated poorly ('Antz', 'Shrek', 'Final Fantasy'), and even the single unqualified success ('Toy Story 2') provided little evidence that a computer animated film COULD reach the heights other kinds of animation could. 'Toy Story 2' had flawless character animation, but nothing as inspired as the best in 'Tarzan' (released the same year, although I could have chosen almost any other Disney cartoon to make my point); effective art direction, but nothing to match 'Fantasia' or 'The Nightmare Before Christmas'. And I thought that 'Toy Story 2' was as good as the art was ever going to get.I was wrong. This is far better. And what's more, there's no sense whatever that the script (an unusually rich and uninhibited script) is bumping up against the limits of what the medium will allow. It's now been proven that computer animation CAN be just as good as any other kind. Whether it will be allowed to be in future is another question, but for now, I'm hopeful. What we have here is computer animation's first ENTIRELY unalloyed artistic delight, with every character gracefully and characteristically animated, every virtual set just right and pleasing to look at, and an eye-tickling mastery of colour, light and shade that I thought would forever elude CGI artists.It's not fair to judge anything good as 'Monsters, Inc.' as though it were a children's movie, but I can't resist comparing it with 'Shrek' - which emphatically IS a children's movie. 'Monsters, inc.' is admittedly ABOUT children, in a sort of a way. The inhabitants of Monstropolis rely on children's screams for their energy, and the central story is kicked off when one of the monsters accidentally brings a small child (which he calls 'Boo') into the city. But we never see things from her point of view. We see things from the point of view of the monsters, who are all adults - and who, like most adults, see children as frightening, almost incomprehensible members of another species. And they ARE. To be sure, Wazowski comes to feel strong affection for Boo, but she never becomes more than a humanoid pet (which is not to demean the relationship). This is a story about adults looking at childhood from the outside.'Shrek', of course, is a children's movie through and through. Its attention span is short, it has an unthinking mean streak, and children will have a whale of a time watching the central characters (the bigger they are, the more fun it is) act childishly and make poo-poo jokes. 'Monsters, Inc.' has too much genuine wit, characters too rich, a world with too much depth, and a story at once too coherent and too complicated, to be PRIMARILY a film for children. This is not to say children won't like it. Maybe they will. (Who can say?) Here's the bonus: if they DO like it, it will (unlike 'Shrek') actually have a beneficial effect. It will make them less frightened of the dark.
This is one of the best movies ever created by Pixar that makes me feel good! I had toys of some of the characters those were fond memories to me maybe cause I'm an aspie; I crave being different. John Goodman and Billy Crystal shine so well I appreciate them in this and all they're other roles! So many great lines that still hold up as charming awesomeness! I'm glad I decided to watch this after a tough day really cheered me up.
I grew up watching Monsters, Inc., and I think I liked it a lot more than i liked Toy Story (and I really liked Toy Story).There was always something so different about Monsters, Inc. that sets it apart. At its heart, it's a story that explores the pain of being separated from the ones we love, and it does it in such a subtle and steady-paced way that it's almost easy to miss the fact that the message is even there. It's so smoothly executed that every scene runs together like a nice, big painting.Billy Crystal and John Goodman are fantastic as Mike and Sulley respectively. The characters work off each other well, and a lot of the humour in the film comes from the interactions between the two rather than the external factors that are introduced.As is typical with Pixar, this film serves a technological purpose. It's not a story that was told simply because the studio wanted to tell another story to make some money. This film takes everything that worked from its predecessors, adds its own elements and challenges and still somehow manages to create an entertaining and endearing film that never fails to warm and break hearts. It's a rare gift, and I feel so fortunate to have had the opportunity to grow up with this film.
A fun animation. Now taking place within the universe of monsters, with several different elements, including Boo. Monsters Inc. is at the level of Boo adults and children, for the simple fact of giving an easy understanding of what is going on in history.Film reviewed on November 21, 2020.
This movie was fun to watch and very touching. Loved the way the story unfolded, with the monsters needing to be able to scare the babies to get power; and how the evil plot hidden unfolded. Sully and Boo make a beautiful combo, along with Mike. The baby Boo is really cute and playful, and those with babies will totally relate to all the things she does. The plan of evil Randall, and what happens in the end was just funny! Overall won't mind watching again and it was definitely fun.
I have watched this movie over 100 times and I still to this day love it. It brings back my childhood and just puts a smile on my face whenever I see it.
An uninhabited monster town is called the Monstropolis centers around the corporate town of Monsters, Inc. The cute, confident, tough, furry blue behemoth-like monster named James P. Sullivan (best known as Sulley) and his best friend, short, green square Mike Wazowski, know what happens or when the real world connects with them in the form of a 2-year-old baby girl named 'Boo,' who turns into a monster and Sulley one night. And now it's time for Sulley and Mike to bring Boo back to his door unnoticed by anyone, especially two bad guys like Sulley's rivals like Randall, an injury as scary as it is there's Boo, he has it. unable to change the color of his skin, with Mike and Sulley managing Mr. Waternoose, chairman and chief executive officer of Monsters, Inc. I Will Give You 10/10
Boo is so cute and Roz has been a favorite since the first time I watched this.
An entertaining, surprisingly sweet, and all together funny animated film- Monsters Inc. more than holds up today, and proves itself to be an animated classic. First off, I adore the cast of this film, honestly one of the best cast of actors out there for a Pixar film to be honest. John Goodman excels at Sully, which is obvious, but the true standouts of the film are Crystal's Mike Wazowski and Buscemi's Randall. The animation is done quite well, and the world they built throughout is absolutely extraordinary and the exact kind of limitless imagination you would expect from such a classic Disney flick. The film is quite funny, and has its fair share of emotional and tender moments, both of which I rather appreciate. It isn't Pixar's best, but due to the talent involved, the incredible worldbuilding, and just a sheer sense of direction and fun characters- Monsters Inc. proves to be one memorable film, and one you never can get tired of, no matter how many times you watch it.
My Rating: 9.75/10
A wonderful movie that's fun for kids and adults.The animation is delightful, the story intriguing and most importantly fun!Highly recommend only for those people who like to have a great time!
John Goodman, Billy Crystal & Steve Buscemi star in this comical animation about a world of nightmarish monsters who's job it is to scare the dreams of children in order to capture their screams which power their world.When one of the children manages to get into their world, a search is triggered for her & it becomes the job of monsters Mike & Sulley to hide, protect & then return Boo to her human world before nasty monster Randall & his friends can use her screams to become top dog of the monsters world!As the story unfolds, Mike & Sulley soon discover the children's laughter are much more powerful than their screams which ultimately triggers a change in the monsters tactics.A great animated movie, if you haven't seen it yet then you really should!
The cuteness of Boo, the child character makes this movie a must watch instantly. She is just the most adorable fictional aniated character I have ever seen.Kids and adults both love this film, I rememeber my son and my nephew loving it when they were small.
Regardless of the quality of the animation - for the time, it was groundbreaking. Pixar never fails to impress and never fails to revolutionize storytelling. No one does it like pixar. Do yourself a favor, if you haven't yet, watch this movie!
A lighthearted family film that offers excitement, fun visuals and a lot of heart. Great voice acting from the three leads: John Goodman, Billy Crystal and Steve Buscemi.
Great film - was a little bit scary when I was young but after revisiting Its tasty
Another animation classic from Pixar, that subverts the way monsters are perceived in a clever way, with memorable characters, an entertaining and emotional story, and gorgeous animation.
This film has a really cool style that combines monster characters with an industrial setting (hence the title). This is used to its full potential as the plot centres around a child coming from our world through a portal. The humour and voice acting are pretty compelling, especially the villain Randall.
Thank God for Pixar they are pumping out great films. I love this film and its great. 10/10
Creative, funny, extraordinary and unique. Monsters, Inc. by the fabulous minds based at Pixar, delivers an entertaining and endearing experience of two monsters, Sulley and Mike. Sulley and Mike change and are changed by their affection for Boo. Boo (i.e., Mary) is an adorable character who draws out empathy even from monstrous souls. That empathy is precisely the fate that takes hold of frightening monsters, who were once drawn to generating screams out of children, but then, after Boo, are transformed into heartwarming creatures to children. Monsters, Inc. is an ingenious and heartwarming family-wide experience, that offers beautiful visuals, fascinating concepts, as well as and the unusual, out-of-the-box portrayal of the relationship between monsters and children. A star of a film.
Maybe it's because I hadn't seen it until now, but I wasn't a huge fan of this. Animation hasn't aged well, tons of poor low poly textures. The story is interesting and the film has many great ideas and some nice humor but it was pretty boring. Also, the girl was extremely annoying and creepy instead of cute.
This film is a complete mess from beginning to end. It seems to think it's cute and funny but it's neither. It's presumably supposed to be a children's movie, but so much of it is not really suitable for children, at least not young children.
Always a pleasure to revisit this. 'Monsters, Inc.' is one of my favourite Disney animated films.The cast and characters are what sets this above the majority of the studio's other work, with so many memorable ones involved. John Goodman (Sully) and Billy Crystal (Mike) make for an outstanding duo in the lead roles, they are truly perfect for their respective roles.Elsewhere, you have the excellent Steve Buscemi portraying Randall to terrific effect. There are also memorable roles for James Coburn (Waternoose), Jennifer Tilly (Celia) and Bob Peterson (Roz). You, of course, also have Boo (Mary Gibbs) who is simply adorable.Everything else from the plot to the animation is fantastic, too - I have no faults with this film. Funny, wholesome, entertaining and touching. I see they're creating a television series, 'Monsters at Work', which could be good given it will have the same cast.A must-watch!
When I think of Pixar this is the first film that comes in mind. This is just a good childhood film for children and adults, heartwarming and beautiful.
The music is so touching. The idea of the story is magical: when children say there are monsters in the closet, they actually do; and behind the closet door, there is a whole new world of monsters.
Loved the movie, the story, the characters... and above all the creativity... there was a part about the Yeti and Himalayas so seamlessly integrated into the story. Just amazing overall.
Monsters, Inc. Is a fantastic, fabulous and beautiful animated movie that is considered to be one of Pixar's finest films ever. The original story it has is amazing that you need a moment to think about it and appreciate it. It is a movie for all ages and a great family movie. I watched it so many times with my family and till today we laugh at its jokes and creativity. Sully and Mike wazowski are iconic and full of humor characters that I grew up upon. John Goodman and Billy Crystal are a dynamic duo throughout the entire movie, Steve Buscemi gives a great performance as the villain Randall. I just love this movie so much that I can talk about it's jokes for days. I highly recommend this movie for all animated movie fans and for Pixar fans to watch it again. Anything to here once again the classic theme song and sully and mike's song.
Monsters Inc. is another Pixar classic, originated by John Lasseter, Pete Docter, Andrew Stanton & Joe Ranft, while shooting for Toy Story. Pete Docter took on the role of director, being his first gig as a director for a major production, while Andrew Stanton, John Lasseter & Darla K. Anderson produced.Monsters Inc. was a very well told story. The narrative didn't just focus on scaring; It had a few sub plots, of friendship and maturing, but Andrew Stanton, Jill Culton, Jeff Pidgeon, Ralph Eggleston & Daniel Gerson balanced every subplot so well, that it flowed just right with the story. The writers stood true to the G rating, and kept everything pretty sane, with a lot of well rounded comedic tone.John Lasseter, Pete Docter, Andrew Stanton & Joe Ranft, designed these extremely detailed & creative looking characters, with their own personalities, sounds, and appearance. Mike is one of main protagonist, who plays the smart guy, while Michael 'Sulley' Sullivan, who is our other protagonist, is like the Tom Brady of Monsters Incorporated. Mike & Sulley have this tremendous chemistry, you can only really dream to have with a friend/co-worker. For someone who didn't have much to say, that we can really understand, Boo tests Mike & Sulley's friendship to different levels! Her character is so cute and charming, carrying a lot of weight for someone who couldn't sit still during voice recordings. Steve Buscemi does a great job as the voice of Randall, but he isn't the smartest of the villain bunch. If you really watch what he does, he's pretty oblivious, and his outcome is pretty pathetic, but comedic gold on our end.Needless to say, the animations were beautiful, with great detail, and textures. The score and music by Randy Newman was fantastic. It was so much fun, that it won an Academy Award for Best Music, Original Song.Overall, Monsters Inc. belongs at the top of the pack, because of all the heart, and wit put into this film.
I'm a big fan of Pixar's moves, but somehow this one passed me by until now... some 18 years after it released. Following the exploits of monsters Mike and Sully as they collect screams from children to power their city, all hell breaks loose when a child follows them back to their world. Just like most of Pixar's work this is full of laughs, charm and heart, and with some big names providing the voices this ranks as one of the most enjoyable animated films for all the family
The hydrogen, screeching electricity was a brilliant idea, and an unexpected one!Sulley and One-eyed are also good gay friends with a contrast!Until Abramovich appeared, everything slowly changed!These scary monsters are scary and scary at the same time. They can't touch anything human. That's why Sulley wanted to send Abramovich back in the first place! But in the process, Sulley has a special feeling for Abramovich, also found that Abramovich's laughter can generate electricity, even many times more powerful than crying! But to their surprise, it was their boss who stole Abramovich in, which also surprised me!Sulley and one-eyed were banished for it! One eye complained about Sulley and came back to help him! Secretly put ABU's people glue to sulley monster!A little curious what sulley saw when he finally opened Up Abramovich?
In Monsters Incorporated, we see the whole company behind monsters that scare children by coming out of their closets. These are magic doors made by monsters to enter any closet door in the world! However, they should avoid scaring teenagers and adults who are too old to be scared by monsters, or who could expose the monster world and put them out of business (if Monsters University did not already give you that hint). After working their way up from the mailroom for about 3 1/2 years (they were expelled from Monsters U. for Sulley cheating at the Scare Games and Mike trespassing into a test door and both of them later destroying it with too much scare energy from adults), Mike Wazowski and James P. Sullivan have become the top scarer team at Monsters Inc. for 11 months straight. Just like how every plane needs a co-pilot, every scarer needs an assistant. When Sulley, Randall and George go in to scare the children and rack up their scare numbers, Mike, Fungus and Charlie need to wear the hard hats and keep the doors in control, and bring the doors in and out for them to scare the kids and power the city.One crucial thing I always missed hearing about Monsters Inc before is that there is a shortage of screams, which is why Randall works in cahoots with Waternoose to kidnap children, and Randall leaves behind one door after hours. A human kid escapes, and Sullivan and Mike need to help her get back to her home before Henry Waternoose or Randall Boggs catch them, but it is tough for them to even stand in her presence without anyone else seeing them because monsters are trained to be scared of human kids since they could be sick and give you cooties, and the girl cried when Sulley wouldn't let her have Mike's monster teddy bear, which messed with the lights. That is why the toxic glow-blow urchins were used as a stand-in for kids' toys in dark in Monsters U. Randall makes a scream extractor to help him cheat his way up the scare scores without putting in any effort to scare children, and it is so scary because it sucks out your voice until you are too exhausted to breathe. It even took the color out of Jeff Fungus after Sulley put him there. Waternoose asks Sulley to demonstrate a scare for Phlegm Bile, and this is where the problem of 'nice monsters should not act scary to human kids' comes into play. Boo cries when she sees what terrifying faces Sulley could make. Mike warns Waternoose about Randall's evil plan, but Waternoose turns out to be an evil banana who was in on it the whole time, and he banishes Sulley and Mike to the human world through a special scary one-way door. Taking care of Boo is the most important thing to Sulley, something that made Mike angry because he was also worried that their friendship and Celia don't matter anymore. Mike also cared about Boo, but he needed time to think, and he still likes Sulley. My most favorite part of Monsters Inc was this really cool door chase where Mike, Sulley and Boo go through various different doors in the door vault. Boo stands up to Randall, and Mike and Sulley banish him to a trailer park. It was also funny when Sulley used Boo's door to trick Waternoose into shouting his plan for kidnapping 1,000 children in the training room, where Mike and the CDA caught it on tape and arrested him. Monsters Inc gets shut down because of this, but six months later, Mike and Sulley re-open Monsters Inc and change it from the scare floor to the laugh floor. It was a perfectly heartfelt moment when Mike repaired Boo's shredded door, and Sulley and Boo got to see each other again.One interesting thing I noticed about the Monsters movies is, that while they both have their own primary antagonist (Johnny for University, Waternoose for Incorporated), and Randall is their accomplice, Randall is really the overarching true villain between both of these movies. He was a monster (the evil kind of monster) who was an attention/popularity seeker and was always out for petty revenge against Sulley for being a better scarer than him, and Mike for not partying with him. I also noticed that Sulley was billed first in Monsters Inc and Mike was billed first in Monsters U. They are technically the duo that gets the most focus in both of these movies, but Monsters Inc focused more on Sulley when he tries to keep Boo out of trouble and runs away from Randall and Henry, and Monsters U focused more on Mike when he tries to be a great scarer and becomes friends with James Sullivan. Monsters at Work will continue that tradition by introducing a new lead, Tylor Tuskimon! I hope that Mike's and Sulley's roles will not get dwarfed by Tylor in Monsters at Work. I am so looking forward to that series almost 20 years after the original Monsters Inc movie, and I hope that some episodes focus primarily on Mike and Sulley and keep the original spirit of Monsters Incorporated and University. John Goodman was a main character in the animated series of Pigs Next Door and Father of the Pride, and reprised another movie role in a regular series, The Emperor's New School, so I have good faith that he and Billy Crystal will do the same thing in Monsters at Work, since they are not as famous or expensive as Tom Hanks and Tim Allen from Toy Story. There would be no Mike Wazowski and James Sullivan without Billy Crystal and John Goodman, and there would also be no Monsters at Work without Mike Wazowski and James Sullivan.
It's just my favorite! The scriptwriter is so cute that he can think of using children's crying and laughter as electric energy. What is creativity? This is called creativity.
When I think Pixar, I think Toy Story, Finding Nemo, and Monsters, Inc. As a kid, I am sure we all thought there were monsters in our closet or under our beds. Pixar manages to take the fear we had as kids and turn it into a funny, loving adventure. Billy Crystal and John Goodman give us some of the best voice acting in Pixar.
It's been a while since I had seen this film, and since I haven't reviewed it I thought that it might be a good idea to watch again. Well, I have to admit that it did turn out to be a good idea, especially since this film is actually quite enjoyable. Yeah, it's mainly for the kids, but Disney does have this way of making films that adults can appreciate as well, not that there is a huge amount of adult content in it. However, there are some subtle things about it that does make it rather charming.Anyway, the film is set in the city of Monstropolis where they get all of their power from children screaming. Yet, there is this story going around that children aren't allowed into the realm because they could wreck havoc. Mind you, it turns out that there is some subtle manipulation going on here because the reality is that if children are no longer scared of monsters, then they won't scream, and as such they won't be able to get any more power, so of course they make up this story that children can't touch monsters because, well, they are dangerous.So, there happens to be this rather sneaky, shape-shifting, lizard called Randal who is attempting to get to the top of the charts for the number of screams that he can get, and he decides to do some overtime. Well, what happens is that this little girl comes into monster land and our heroes suddenly find that she is following them around. Yeah, it becomes pretty obvious pretty quickly that children aren't as dangerous as they are said to be, which means that there is more going on than meets the eye.Interestingly, one could say that there are lots of connections between this film, and the current energy debate that is raging around the Earth. In fact, it turns out that there are ways to get more energy than simply getting children to scream, but people don't seem to be looking in that direction. Mind you, it also makes me wonder, with all the power that Disney has, that they can't push the debate towards more renewable sources of energy.Yeah, you could suggest that getting children to scream is sort of a non-renewable form of energy, especially considering that once a child is no longer scared of a monster, there is nothing they an do to change that. However, there are other ways, as I indicated, some of them good, some of them not so good. As you can probably suspect, Randal is looking at a rather not so good way of getting more energy.This film, as I suggested, is actually rather enjoyable, and does ask some serious questions in a way that is quite light hearted as well. Yeah, I liked it.
The mob finally inspired, transforming the power company into a factory that collects laughter, and the monsters that were ready to be scared, all used all their power to make the children laugh, very loving pictures!
Laughing is another lind of power.laughing can move all the people
No scare.laugh and love are the most important things in the world
I haven't seen this in a while, but this movie is amusing. Everything is pretty good, the dialogue, the storyline, the characters, and everything else. I encourage you to give this a try.
There is such a world, where there live a group of monsters. They are funny looking, but they must pretend to be terrible. In the middle of the night, monsters come into the children's rooms to scare them, because they are employees of the monster power company, and the children's screaming emotions are the power source of the monster kingdom. Monsters are afraid of children, but they have to make them scream. In the land of monsters, they are heroes for the benefit of all.The screenwriter's imagination is so rich that he can even think of using the children's emotions as electric energy. This is a film in today's view effect is still to be laudable and fairy tales, 'monsters company' imaginative fantasy, make western monster embodiment of former thriller became a favorite of content, better laugh than weep, large seed abramovich with MAO blame the man chuckled to partner with the warmth between the a bit also give a person with the most pure touched.
It is very nice cartoon. I watch this is cartoon very a lot of . It is very interesting
It is easy to miss the wonderful story, moved by, mercilessly
Why do these little guys break into the monster's den of animation are filled with so much love?
My Childhood Craze. Awesome Creation. The Best Animated Movie. Great Story.
Monsters, Inc. Pixar. Storytelling.One of the most iconic movies in my generations time. As I get older and older, I begin to appreciate more and more the work of Pixar and the animated movies that made a massive impact on me.The best thing is....it's all centered around a kids fantasy of monsters in a closet. Just think about that. So, amazing.
Watched this as a kid and even watching it 15 years on, it's still entertaining !
Monster inc is a master piece in all aspects i dont mind watching it 100 times
You may admire the hair detail on Sully the Yeti's arm, but you will be amazed at the warmth of characterization in 'Monsters, Inc.,' surpassing even the great 'Shrek' earlier this year. Goodman and Crystal are a comedic team reminiscent of the zaniest Martin and Lewis days. Crystal's Borscht-belt routines brought smiles even to this jaded and admittedly tough-on-comedy critic. I thought Eddie Murphy's donkey in 'Shrek' was smart and funny; Crystal's one-eyed monster is even better with its wry and annoying wit.Cleaning the environment of child contamination is a hilarious conceit that turns around the usual fears children have of monsters in closets. It is also a chilling parallel to the challenge of removing anthrax from today's letters. Generally, the allegorical underpinnings of animation are natural for the medium, powerful like the images of the novel 'Animal Farm' for political and sociological levels of meaning. For example, the endless-door motif in this film is an ingenious metaphor for the scary and glorious possibilities the present and future hold for kids.Even before you see this feature, Pixar offers the short feature 'For the Birds' -- a brilliant takeoff on Hitchcock's memorable film besides being a great commentary on diversity. The expressions around the animated eyes, as the little birds deal with the big bird interloper, are more expressive than those of most contemporary film actors, with the exception of Brando, Pacino, Depp, and Streep.The short trailer for 'Star Wars II: Attack of the Clones' may precede the showing as it did ours for an added delight.'Monsters, Inc.' is the best animated feature this year and one of the greatest of all time.
The animated feature from Pixar reveals that it is true (as every child knows) that there are monsters in the bedroom closet, especially after the lights have been put out. What we did not realize is that the monsters are on assignment. A closet door, which by day leads to a closet, at night leads directly to Monstropolis, the world of monsters, which is powered by Scream Heat. The only reason monsters jump out of closets and scare kids is to collect their screams, which are to Monstropolis as power plants are to the rest of us.
It is a great movie1! it is very fynny and i used to seeing thiw movie four timew a day when i was a little girl! I love babula , he is so kind!!!
I love the animation, plot line, story characters development and design of the movie. All of the monster looked difference and cool looking. I loved the plot line of the story. On the surface it looked like it was a silly little movie about monster. But when you get deeper it about you can care for people who are that most discrimination against when it comes to look and stuff. I loved it. The messge was great. I think everyone should have to watch this story. I loved all the door designs that were in this movie. At loved that at first sully is scared of this little girl becuse people have told her to be scared of her but when he finally spend a good amount of time. He starts to learn along with mike that she not as bad as the monster make out her kind to be. It might be a likely friendship for a little girl and two monsters to have but it was a good one. By the end of the movie especially sully cared about her a ton.
This was awesome! This utopic world and scaring processes are really good. Exactly there are some unlogic times, for example how could Boo forgive Kid as easly as that? But these states are not much also there are a few. So YOU HAVE TO WATCH THIS MOVIE IF YOU DID NOT YET!!!
Hardwork doesnt guarantee success and so doesnt talent without hardwork. You may not be fit for the job, so choose the future correctly. But together we can make better future. The friendship to last long. Understanding each others power, strength and weakness. The core of our institution may be hollow and biased but are we strong enough to challenge the black sheeps in the institution? Fun with screams and laughter. Enjoy.
A touching movie about the affection between a human girl and two warm-hearted monsters, describing the love which trespasses species. I really recommend everyone to watch this movie!
I cannot help crying when I heart that ''Kitty? ''
Never judge one's heart by one's appearanceI .I like simple and beautiful things, and sometimes I don't want to think about too many complicated things.
Animated films in general I could take or leave most of the time. All those Disney films that have been all the rave for decades, they're pretty hit or miss for me. Even the ones that people say they're the best, I've never been so crazy about them.But Pixar is a whole new ballpark. It has truly changed the game, not just with computer animation, but the quality is really a level up from what we've seen before. They're not all masterpieces, but the vast majority of them are very good. And MONSTERS, INC. is one of their best. It's not just for kids; everyone will enjoy this fun movie. I'm sure they had a lot of fun making it but they also put in a lot of hard work to make it excellent and to make the best film they could make. Highly recommend.
Monsters Inc, like Toy Story is also a genius concept. The film works off the premise that children's bedroom closet doors operate as portals that allow monsters through them to scare them and obtain the energy released in the scream to fuel the monster world. I have no idea how this concept was thought up but it sets the movie up for a home run.These characters have fully realised and developed personalities. We see that their decisions have actual consequences and they feel more than one way about the events. We see internal conflict and for a movie animated 'lovable' monsters, that is really impressive.The chase scene at the end is staged and paced perfectly. Great story telling and really entertaining watching. It made me fall in love with these characters and really get on board with what they were trying to do. It culminates to a denouement that is satisfying, well thought out and fully rounded.Monsters Inc is Pixar doing what it does best.
One of my movie blindspots from my childhood, came into this with an open mind, prepping myself to maybe not enjoy so much as it is a children's film essentially.But I was very wrong. The humour was on point, had me giggling, and no doubt would have had child me in stitches.But I wasnt prepared the emotional warmth - the bond between boo and Scully is genuinely heartwarming, and the end scenes had me welling up.Any film that mixes emotional depth and comedy so seamlessly should get high accolade, and even more so as an animated film. Bravo!
Hey sully wully, hey celi... weelia.Big film from start to finish, a real childhood favourite, I still don't like Randall the big meanie.Can't help but get attatched to Sully and Boo's relationship, it's so cute. Enough quotes in the film to stay in your memory forever.
< Monsters.Inc > A very imaginative classic cartoon film, the image of various monsters is very creative, the fluffy hair of the hairy monster is too real, and the character is particularly loyal and cute. If humans and monsters can live in peace, it is also a very beautiful world.Even if the monster is the main character, it still achieves the goal that beauty is greater than ugliness. Even the villain does not feel his sense of danger. And inside, in the compact 90 minutes, there is an endless stream of jokes, especially the one-eyed dragon's words are really too much. The overall setting of the film is very closely related to children without losing the sense of science fiction. It is also a very good idea to use the screams of scared children to generate electricity. At the end, laughing instead of crying made the film's style rise again. Of course, that 'arbitrary door' war is also the most exciting part of the film.
Looking back on Pixar in the 2000s, it's clear to me that was their golden age. MONSTERS INC is one of the finest efforts of that period, a comedy both humane and thrilling. The design of the characters and the world is like something out of a child's imagination, while the story is well-plotted and engaging.As a child, I recall being most interested in the buddy comedy elements and the chase scene through the colorful warehouse filled with bedroom doors. As an adult, I've come to better appreciate how the movie works as a parable about becoming a parent. Sully is initially interested in his own glory and the petty goal of being the best. When Boo comes into his life, everything changes-- everything he believed was important turns out to be nothing compared to the fatherly love he feels for her. It's sweet without rotting your teeth and the ending... oh God, it still makes me cry.One of Pixar's best, without a doubt.
This is a very creative cartoon. The monsters are so cute and touching.
Incredible this animation. Boo is very very very very very very cute
Love this movie Monsters are so cute. They're kind
This movie is so good it'll scare you! (See what I did there?) It truly is a fun movie! It's so imaginative!
This proposal is interesting, being monsters I liked, I found it funny and funny, only that the character of the girl 'Boo' at some times already tired me a little, I do not know why, I was not captivated as many.The colors and image quality were incredible, it is quite enjoyed, although the soundtrack does not stand out so much.I recommend the film to anyone who has not yet seen it, it will be a good time, but I think that if they had not included humans it would be much better.
Monsters Inc is an amazing concept fueled by a common disbelief by children that a monster lives in their closet. This film gives us an explanation as to why Monsters do this in a genius concept. Mike Wazowski is an incredibly well written character with his comedy, temper, and overall comedic appearance. There are so many jokes in this film that could arguably be considered 'ironic humor.'
Monsters Inc is also a very heartfelt and emotional film. The ending, while being sad, feels like the right thing to happen. However the very last scene gives us hope for a happy, satisfying ending to the story. I really don't think a sequel can be made of this film, because the story felt so random, as if it was just a few crazy days at work. Which is exactly what this film, at its core is, which explains its genius of a concept.
This is one of Those movies where im not sure if i love it because its awesome or because ive seen it a mill. Times Because im a Millennium kids #90s
No matter what a really beautiful story and considering it was mading in the 90s the animations er pretty good.
Monsters inc , so this is film that i hard a lot about but never had a chance to see it,until today and i must admit it that i liked it a lot,is it good as finding nemo,incredibles or toy story no,but it is a very great pixar film that will make kids happy for a two hours and parents will also found something in film that they will love or they can relate to,crystal and goodman had a nice time working together and their mix was a joy to watch,also buschemi did a very good job in playing villain and also had some fun moments,monsters inc is end a very good pixar film that will be a great time for entire families
Monsters Inc. is non stop fun, driven by the spectacular voice acting by the likes of Crystall, Goodman, and Buschemi. Hilarious, innovative, and masterfully animated, the film delivers laughs and good times as it propelled Pixar into the 2000s.
I was recently gifted a '100 movie advent calendar' for Christmas. When you are ready to watch a movie you scratch one of the boxes off and it tells you what to watch. The first draw was Monsters, Inc. I haven't seen this classic for over 10 years, but my wife was pulling quotes out verbatim. The opening 10 minutes are executed to perfection. The characters are introduced nicely, the plot and obstacle to overcome laid out, the world built, and the comedic timing perfect. The compilation of Mike training Sully with scare exercises had me rolling. The movie does lose steam after this first 10 minutes but it certainly never sputters out. Monsters, Inc. is a classic for a reason, and is a must see.
An amazing animated movie that gained a legendary status throughout the years based on it's phenomenal idea that one of the most innovative things we've seen told in an animated movie in a while, plus a truly remarkable animations and visuals, not seen till the period it came out, 2001 to be exact. The voice acting is fantastic since the characters are voiced by movie legends, the ending is suitable for a family movie where you expect a happy ending that ads up to the joy of fun and happiness provoked by this gem.
I always enjoy watching monsters inc this movie never gets old
I mean. This is a disaster of epic proportions.
Boring and lame 'adventure' type story.
All the jokes made for literal babies. The jokes are noises, dumb faces, and phisical comedy like falling down or getting punched.
The voice actors casting is criminal. Absolutely disgusting.
This movie couldn't be worse even if they would've tried.
A weird but also wise plot.The monsters that use their voices and appearance to scare children and this provides their energy.Wonderful voice cast by the veterans.A must see for the whole family.
Rating9/10Appealing comedy adventure for kids and adults alike. Despite slightly dated animation the script isn't dated at all. Has a great voice cast and an emotional conclusion.Highly recommended
Monsters, Inc is a movie to see with family or your siblings. It is about two monsters, Mike and Sulley, who work in a factory where their job is to scare children to have electric energy. From here a fantastic adventure will start with a little girl, Boo, who will make Mike and Sulley understand that they don't have to act like they used to do in the past. This movie will make you cry, will make you laugh and at the same time it will give you a moment with your family. So, we can actually say that this time Pixar totally made a masterpiece.
Monsters, Inc is a movie to see with your family or your siblings. It is about two monsters, Mike and Sulley, who work in a factory where their job is to scare children to have eletric energy. From here a fantastic adventure will start with a little girl, Boo, who will make Mike and Sulley understand that they don't have to act like they used to do in the past.
This movie will make you cry, will make you laugh and at the same time it will give you a moment with your family. So, we can actually say that this time Pixar totally made a masterpiece.
After 18 years, Monsters Inc still holds up, which is impressive for an animated film. The humor still lands, it's still adorable and fun. Boo is a little creepy looking now but aside from that holds up really well.The only thing really holding it back is that it doesn't seem to have a real strong message. Maybe I just missed it, but most Pixar movies have at least one significant message to them and in Monsters Inc I just wasn't getting the same depth to that.
A good flick for a rainy day. I think the expert casting was the best part.
Even if you're not a child, it is OK to watch a great kids film, especially when life gets you down. This is one of those perfect animated films which kids and adults can both love, yet view on a different level. Top notch animation, too, unlike the other film starring these lovable characters.
I can't see anything bad on this one. Should have won over Shrek but I really don't mind, both are my entire childhood
Silly parody of classic monster movies, and now with monsters in a factory afraid of humans. Be sure to watch this on a huge screen, and good Dolby speakers. You can feel the pain of making Monsters, Inc. with all the fur, scales and very detailed backgrounds.
Thought this was funny and cute, the monsters are adorable and played out well. If is definitely one for the kids!
When i was young we didn't have wi-fi or any network and that was one of the doenloaded movies in our computer so i watched it with my little brother and sister over and over again and it never became boring. Pixar always makes the best animations btw luv <3 Mike Wazowski.
It's a lovely film filled with a whole new world of charming characters mainly in Boo the kid, Sully And Mike. They being the central characters bring so much charm in this movie. Its a whole new world out there with these scary looking monsters. The animation, the camerawork and the characterisation is pitch perfect. Infact its my favourite animated movies now right up there with Toystory. Magnificent. 8/10
Play Monsters, Inc.! It is fast and easy to view! A good way to spend your time. Be the best!
The best way to describe this movie in one word is; fun! 'Monsters, Inc.' is a movie you can easily fall in love with. It has some great fun character, some awesome moments and some well placed comical moments. 'Monsters, Inc.' is entertainment at its bests.The voice cast is amazing. John Goodman and Billy Crystal form a great leading duo. Steve Buscemi is a great villain and James Coburn has a great voice that fits his character perfectly. John Ratzenberger as always is very entertaining this time in a role as banished Yeti.The story itself is pretty simple but thats what makes it easy to follow and so much fun to watch. The movie not only knows how to entertaining but also knows how and when to emote. The combination of fun and emotional things is perfectly balanced and placed within the movie.There is some great dialog but the true power of 'Monsters, Inc.' are the wonderful characters. Not is there only a wild variety of strange and weird characters but also some characters that are good for some serious laughs and Boo is simply adorable and a pretty fair representation of a kid in real life. Well done Pixar!Pure entertainment for the entire family!
One of my favourite movie of all time. I love the friendship between Mike and sully.
It has a creative plot of monsters scaring children so that they can power their city and how they work in an office environment. The characters, animation, and said plot are great. My favorite characters are Mike, Sulley, Celia, and Boo. The humor is hilarious, the title sequence looks neat, Billy and John are great together, Boo is cute, the plot twist where Waternoose was the one behind Randall's schemes was really surprising, and the music by Randy Newman was excellent!There are some emotional scenes, like when Sulley scares Boo, and when they have to part ways. I know Randall is a funny villain and all, but he is a jerk in my opinion. Anyway, the song 'If I Didn't Have You' was amazing, and there's more to laughs than scariness, which makes this a really fun movie.
9.5/10
This movie is a beautiful piece of heart warming pieces. But it also has its parts that dont make sense and parts that make you feel a bit bored.
Hilarious (high-energy, wise-cracking Mike is an absolute (actual) ball-'Roz, my tender, oozing blossom'-and has great chemistry with amiable big guy Scully) and heartfelt (I felt my heart melting at that final shot; Boo was absolutely adorable), with a clever premise that serves as the vehicle for a brilliant thematic thread commenting on the (actual) power of love, laughter, and creativity in the face of division, fear-mongering politics, and resignation to an unethical system of economics.
Funny, Original (Than Lots of Current Disney Cartoons)
Overall Monster's Inc. isn't the best Pixar has to offer but it's still definitely a good time, with funny characters and for the most part strong writing, at least in terms of the characters. The story is fun and full of beautiful colors, the animation is obviously great, the world Pixar has created is fully realized and every detail expertly crafted to match the distinct monster city. There's lots of bombastic action with an overall good solid moral message, Monster's Inc. is always a great time, no matter what age your are.
Ah, good old child nostalgia; it attaches to your memories. Any child deserves to see this. JOYFUL!
Another Pixar classic, this one focuses on the world of monsters and how similar their world is to ours in that it's blue-collar. The main characters are Mike(Billy Crystal) and Sully(John Goodman). Sully is a top scarer at his job and loves what he does. You see their world is powered by the screams of kids and it's his job to help maintain the power they receive by scaring kids.However there's a catch: The monsters think kids are toxic and that touching them can be fatal. Isn't that hilarious? It doesn't help that a little girl makes her way into their world and they have to keep her existence a secret. While struggling to get her home they begin to realize that she's not toxic and that there may be a conspiracy involving their rival Randall(Steve Buschemi) and boss Mr. Waternoose.So yeah, the premise's interesting and leads to a lot of creative jokes. A good one is at the beginning where they're walking to work and one of the monsters they walk past is a slug who goes through a filter on the street and another who accidentally burns his newspaper by sneezing fire.The characters are enjoyable to watch. Mike as a comic relief's funny and Sully works well as the straight man. It's funny to see them bounce off each other while also seeing them talk about serious matters like the situation about the little girl nicknamed 'Boo'. Randall's an interesting villain. The way he moves is cool and his design is interesting.Monsters Inc. is a great movie to watch. It has something for everyone both kids and adults. I don't have much else to say other check it out for yourself. It's another Pixar classic.
Without giving the name of the author, Canadian social commentator Mark Steyn cited a piece of writing during a 2012 interview with an American cable-TV company which was about how children perceive the world around them through the fiction they're exposed to early on in life. Principally, he cites an analysis made by a fellow-Canadian on how creatures, or 'monsters', on television, or in cutesy books, were damaging to kids - it imparted the idea that monsters were just cute, cuddly friends that needed taming or befriending. Steyn seemed to prefer 'classic' children's literature in this respect, because there you garner a '...far greater sense of the realities of life from the Brothers Grimm than you will from the Cookie Monster.'I wonder what either of them thought of 'Monsters Inc.', where the one infant character in the film is completely unafraid of precisely the sorts of post-Sesame Street monsters the article cited, yet is a character in a piece imparting the idea that cute and cuddly is good. To some extent, Disney's 2002 animation plays like a kind of animated therapy for young children, who will of course love the colour; vibrancy and sense of adventure infused throughout 'Monster's Inc.', but will also have one of their fears exorcised - that of the dark bedroom at night-time and the idea a creature might lurk beyond a visible realm.At the core of the film is a quite brilliant idea: in an alternate world running parallel to our own, there exist actual creatures, hideous in physicality, desperately in need of the terrified screams of young children so as to run their civilisation. In order to do so, they appear in bedroom closets around the world late at night (the only gateway from our own universe to theirs); do what they have to do to induce sheer panic and return home again having captured the noise in a canister. One of the film's best jokes, in fact, doubles up as a devilish social commentary on how much harder it is these days to truly frighten children, given what they are often exposed to on TV and in video games.The scream-drive is propelled by two monsters called Sully and Randall, whose physical characteristics are cleverly echoed by their voice-talents: Sully, like John Goodman, is big and huggable and has a dopey voice, whilst Steve Buscemi's lizard-like creation is more slender and bug-eyed. Sully is the consummate professional who goes through the same process every morning: exercising and scare routines with his flat-mate and floor-work partner Mike Wazowski (Billy Crystal). He blindly trusts the corporation, epitomised quite cleverly in the arachnid-like CEO Henry J. Waternoose (James Coburn), who sports a waist-coat but is tragically missing a monocle. Children are Sully's worst enemy, believing them to be potentially toxic. Regardless, he puts his life on the line every day for his society - the moral justification for all this lies in the company's motto: 'We scare, because we care'.As each of the monsters in the company lumbered with this responsibility walk to their posts in slow motion, the film invokes Michael Bay's 1998 film 'Armageddon', which infers a sense of doom or catastrophe if these brave souls were to fail in their duty: these people are the guardians of civilisation. Civilisation does not quite crumble, but disaster strikes when a young American child manages to make its way out of our world and into the monsters' own - enough to have Sully and Mike worried their days are numbered as previous misnomers have led to other monsters banished to our world, cleverly accounting for Bigfoot and the Yeti. In a panic, the twosome concoct a plan to return it to where it belongs, but that becomes problematic when Sully becomes attached to it.'Monsters Inc.' cracks along at a fantastic pace and works so wonderfully well because of a number of things. Principally, the stakes are incredibly high, so there is always this rapid, even nervous, energy pulsating through the film once the 20 minute mark elapses, and the film does such a wonderful job in bringing the two personalities in the form of its heroes to life in such a short space of time that we are hooked on their adventure the whole way. Furthermore, the characterisation is superb - these are rounded characters with lives; dreams; goals and even girlfriends - they possess different attitudes; physical appearances and characteristics. The world it creates, that of one parallel to our own, is extraordinary from a design perspective - the way they echo one another in the form of a daily commute; workplace rivalry; a relaxing meal after work and generally the things you see out and about is marvellous.What directors Pete Docter; David Silverman and Lee Unkrich later pull off is the incredibly tricky transition the film needs to make from being a double-act comedy about getting rid of something which doesn't want to leave, to being a film about foiling a corporate conspiracy. One cannot laud the team enough. Laudable too is the character study - this is Sully's film; a character who blindly trusts the machine at the beginning of the film but undergoes his own journey to find out that kids are not toxic; corruption might come from anywhere and even tackles the moral dilemma of how to power his world. Irrespective of age, and with whomever you see it, 'Monster's Inc.' is a genuinely infectious and wholesome piece of animated entertainment.
I don't know how many times I have watched this movie, but it always makes me laugh like it's the first time I see it. Overall I think it's one of the most original and entertaining movies Disney has ever produced.
Sully and Mike (voiced by John Goodman and Billy Crystal) are employees at Monsters Inc., a scream-fueled plant that provides power to Monsteropolis. Screams are generated by 'scarers' (and Sully is the best), who enter children's bedrooms via the closet and are harvested by their partners (in Sully's case, his best friend Mike). Extreme care must be taken, as children are highly toxic to monsters, so when one is accidently transported to the factory, pandemonium ensues. The film is the fourth of Pixar's full length animated features and like most of the studio's work, is excellent. The story is fun with a clever 'twist' to the ending, the animators manage to inject a tremendous amount of character and personality into the CGI characters, and the choice of voice talent is perfect (I especially liked Steve Buscemi as the chameleonic villain Randall). CGI technology has advanced considerably since the film was released but the imagery still holds up and the vast 'closet door' storage facility is great. Typical of the studio, there are a lot of amusing details in the background that are worth watching for. Good, timeless fun for all ages.
It's such an odd premise for a movie, but yet it works so well. What if the monsters hiding in your closet are real and what if they have a society of their own, behind that door. What would that society look like and what part the scaring of little children would play in it.You can definitely build a movie around that and Pixar does so beautifully. In the process we get introduced to James P. 'Sulley' Sullivan and Michael 'Mike' Wazowski, the top scaring duo Monsters, Inc. has ever seen. Things go well, until a little girl child, adorably and promptly named Boo, slips through the door. Hijinks do indeed ensue.The movie has a strong idea and some topnotch characters going for it. I thoroughly enjoyed the relationship between Sully and Boo. The rest of the cast are voiced by some really talented people and all of the main cast have really great designs as well. I especially enjoyed Henry J. Waternoose III, the CEO. The side and background characters looked a bit more generic and blobbish in contrast, which is a shame, but then again they're not the focus.The only real flaw the film has is the story. It's not bad by any means, but it is not as strong as the other elements. Status quo is king, something upsets the status quo, hijinks, solution. No real surprises, no great stakes. I would have liked to explore the world a bit more or move beyond the obvious bad guy good guy setups.Still, a great animation film for all ages. Definitely worth a watch.
Monsters Inc, The Best Fantasy/Adventure. I love this!
Monster Inc is the funniest cartoon I've ever watch
Oh man, watching this film again filks me with so much nostalgia. I remember watching this film so many times when it was on tv. I really love the story and characters. Even the anination is still pretty good. It may not be as amazing as when I was a kid, but it's still a great film I 100% recommened.
This is a movie for all ages it is such a good movie, I don't get why shrek won the Oscar though anyway this has good characters and great/awesome animation.
My favorite thing about this movie is the relationship Boo gains with both Sully and Mike. Love it.
MONSTERS, Inc. with a secondary title is the story of two friends with a aim like to achieve 'ELYSIUM.' It did not prove a surprise to the viewers because the movie was offered our open hearts like children have for watching movies.
Like all Disney/Pixar movies, Monsters Inc. manages to blend just the right amount of adventure with emotional character. The end of the movie brings tears to the eye with just one word. That is what makes Disney and Pixar so powerful. The movie is fun to watch, the plot flows well, and the characters have enough depth. Character relations are well-put together and creative.8/10
This is a hilarious, fast paced fun movie about a little girl who gets into the monster world with Mike and Sully. Sully's bond with Boo (the girl) is probably the best thing about the movie. I also loved the character of Randall and the scene where they're flying around hanging onto doors is very entertaining.
In a world full of monsters of all kinds, where all the power came from children's screams, a select few had the job of going into the human world to scare the little ones. Everything seems as normal as it can be for that place, until one day, a human child enters the monster world and is hidden by the two protagonists who don't actually know how to get rid of her fast enough before the authorities catches them all.It's a one of a kind story which presents the adventures of two monsters who worked at the power factory and unwillingly get a human child at their feet. Being seen as toxic for the monster world, the child must be sent back to her world as soon as possible before the two get into trouble. Thus a cavalcade of funny and suspenseful action sequences emerge in their desperate attempt to make things right. As you might expect, not everything goes according to plan as they're about to find out a big scheme which might put their lives into peril.As said before, it's full of action, thrill, emotion and comedy, managing to keep the bar raised throughout the movie. It looks great, it has a very good plot, it's very entertaining, so you'll definitely have a very good time watching it. It is also pretty unpredictable, thus being able to provide a satisfying finale. Everything is good and very good about it, but also not extraordinary, so it receives a big thumbs up and a great recommendation from my side.
Released by the Reptilian Disney (666) organization, the 'monster' world did not have an energy source & so they walked through 'doors' (symbolic of inter-dimensional gateways) into children's bedrooms in the human world. There they would frighten children & when the kids screamed with fear, monsters would capture that energy in a tube & take it back through the door to power their world. The hero of the movie was, appropriately, a single eye (all seeing eye - a major Reptilian symbol.) Read your David Icke people. Walt Disney was a 33° Freemason & an Illuminist. Behind all those cartoons, magazines, movies etc., is a hidden agenda to mess up your children's minds. Disney's production over the years is filled with Masonic symbolism, occult over- & undertones, mind control & indoctrination. He is preparing our younger generations for the New World Order, & introduce them to sorcery (black magic) as being a 'cool thing'. Read your Fritz Springmeier as well people.
Look I've seened many Disney movies we all have at least most of us but this was a major success for its writing animation and heart warming pilot and dialogue this was a major in the early 2000's and will also be when you look at a Disney movies enough times you realize that it will never get old and you will still remember it probably.
One of the best Disney/Pixar partnerships. The comedy in this film is sharp and witty and the sweet moments are very touching. It's an original story with excellent animation. Plus, Boo is just adorable.
Ok I understand it's 2018 and this movie released in November of 2002, but I feel like I should still give my own personal review! Monsters Inc is Just one of many of Pixar's Library And just happens to be a big hit!! My own score of this masterpiece is 10/10, mainly for the Heartwarming relationship of Sully and Boo, the friendship of Mike and Sully, Humor, Visuals are insane for 2002, and the Soundtrack Is Really quite Good! In total conclusion Monsters Inc Will definitely be a film to remember for a long time to come!!
'Monsters, Inc.' is one of Pixar's best known and most widely popular movies - an endearing and highly likeable family movie bursting with ideas and imagination. Though not one of Pixar's best and not a personal favourite of mine, I did get a lot of enjoyment out of this movie, especially the characters, which are all brilliantly unique, entertaining and genuinely funny.The storyline, as enjoyable as it is, is not on the same level as the likes of 'Toy Story' and 'Up'. I always get the feeling I'm watching something special with those movies, but I think 'Monsters, Inc.', for all its creativity and likeability, lacks that special quality to put it up there with the very best animated pictures. That said, judging it on its own merits, this is a great animated family movie and one of those movies that is just impossible to dislike.
This movie was the only thing I would fall asleep to every night and I have watched it more times than I could possibly count. To this day when I watch it it still makes me cry. It's beautifully done and has a great plot. In my opinion. It's the best movie ever to come out of Disney Pixar.
I watched the movie after reading the outstanding reviews about it.The whole story was nonsense. A robot has feelings! That is so uncomfortable. I felt odd and bored throughout the entire movie.I read the reviews again to make sure that i have watched the exact same movie. Seriously, what is wrong with you people?
Eva is a well-known female name since the beginning of our history.
This cartoon is very overrated as in my opinion the cartoon is sufficient especially for the fact that it is strangely boring for its entire duration and manages to entertain in a few points without ever being really interesting.
I can watch this over and over again. It's just the most adorable film I've ever seen.Even without substantial dialogue, you can really sense the emotions throughout these two robotic creatures. It really gives a great sense of the spirit of humanity transferred into these beings.Overall story line, animation, and even the themes are well thought out. I was thoroughly entertained throughout this piece.
I think this animation is not only for children. Firstly, the plot shows us the world after people left Earth due to a lot of trash. We can imagine which future will be if the humanity wouldn't stop to produce so many trash. Also the animation has unusual romantic line. Secondly, I really love the animation style and technical aspects of it.So, it's great animation abou big issues of our world.
CGI is wayyy before it's time. Looks photo real sometimes. It's crazy. And the story is so charming and the fact that they all communicate so much, with minimal dialogue. Absolute masterpiece.
It was summertime in 1994. Andrew Stanton, John Lasseter, Pete Docter, and the late Joe Ranft sat down to lunch in the Hidden City Cafe. Production on Toy Story was wrapping up. And what were they going to do next? At that very lunchtime, they came up with A Bug's Life, Monsters, Incorporated, Finding Nemo, and the last one they talked about was the story of the little robot named WALL-E. In his story, WALL-E has been doing the same job of scooping and cubing garbage for 700 years when we had polluted the planet and we had to evacuate on giant spaceships, to live in space. But during the time, WALL-E is feeling lonely from all the cleaning and sorting, beside working with his loyal pet cockroach, he wants to find the love of his life. But one day, his dream has finally come true when another robot named EVE has been sent from the spaceship Axiom to search for plant life here on Earth. WALL-E and EVE start to bond and fall head over wheels in love. EVE realizes that WALL-E has discovered the last plant on Earth and climbs back on her probe ship and returns to the Axiom with WALL-E stowing away. In the Axiom, WALL-E discovers that we humans have turned into fat, lazy blobs over the centuries. WALL-E and EVE must venture in and out of the spaceship to bring the plant to the ship's holo detector so they can bring us back home and recolonize our planet. WALL-E is very beautiful as the beginning looks kind of sad. The relationship between WALL-E and EVE is so sweet and emotional that shows that robots can fall in love.
I always get inspired by his dedication from the beginning and through out the movie and story line. And the finale of him finding tiny small fresh and green colour planet popping out from a hopeless piece of soil is getting me goosebumps.The story-line is quite attractive for kids and adults, and it's a sweet reminder of how we should protect and save out planet.
Wow. This is easily Pixar's most timeless film, and will be relevant for generations to come. Such an incredible story that really makes you happy you're alive at this moment in time. Almost photo realistic animation, even though this came out in 2008. I'm having a very hard time ranking these Pixar films, since I've got like a 4 way tie between Cars, Monsters, Inc., Ratatouille, and this one. This is possibly Pixar's most visually stunning films along with Coco, which gives it a lot of points. A good word to use to describe this is magical. It's crazy how much BETTER Pixar is than EVERY OTHER ANIMATION COMPANY by a country mile. A solid 9.0/10 for me is an amazing score and probably gets into my Top 100, and I've given out like 7 of them for the first 9 Pixar films. They're just that good. WALL-E is no exception, and Pixar's genius win streak continues through 2008.
This was a masterpiece down to the smallest detail. Getting to see Wall-E and Eva go through so much so fast and seeing their different personalities kind of go through every emotion was very lovable. Seeing Eva notice Wall-Es feelings while watching her security feed then seeing her realize her own feelings for Wall-E was very heartwarming. Honestly I never thought I'd tear up for romance between two robots but this was one of the best romances in a family movie that I have her seen. Everything in the movie fit together perfectly from the visuals to the soundtrack. As I've said before I have nothing but respect for movies that share an important message, it just annoys me when the messages is completely ignored.
This movie is a really good movie
it touches your felling and it's an emotional movie
one of the best animated films of all time.
In my eyes WALL-E is a masterpiece for the ages. Rewatching it after years have a new perspective in life and hope to find someone. With only two eyes WALL-E shows more emotions than many actors and with eyes and her voice EVE is one of the cutest character in cinema.
Really one of the best animation movie I have seen in my life.
There really isn't any conversations in this story, and yet it totally works.Wall-E is a true pleasure to watch for me. Although, I must emphasize the near silence. A beautiful commentary about how humans are slowly changing into fat cows that sit around an watch TV all day, and because of this they just ignore the world crumbling into ruin around them.Don't worry about responsibility the president of BUY-MORE is here to help!
Look, I don't like romance movies. They're not for me. But I like this one. WALL-E is adorable. I found myself rooting for him, for the most part. There were a few moments I found his over-eagerness for EVE to be annoying, mainly when he got them in trouble. But, WALL-E has heart, which is weird to say about a robot. The charming nature of WALL-E's love for EVE is too much to ignore and made me fall in love with this movie. It's great and one of the few Disney/Pixar films I actually like.
Disney Pixar has achieved a very big feat by putting live in robots through their animation and characterisation. Wall E movie gives message through its story. Characterisation is done very beautifully. There is very less role of humans in the movie because main lead roles are robots.I think this movie is a little overrated. I would still rate movie like Up, Coco and Ratatouille higher than Wall E.
One of the masterpiece childhood movies that one can never forget.
This movie is incredible!! I adored it as a child and I adore it even more now. Honestly this is such a phenomenal film - definitely Pixar's best by far!
For me, this is best show for kids, even parents can like it.
Rating: 8.0Solid film overall, from what I remember it looked clean and ended well. Delivered it's themes and messages clearly.
Animation movie stories haven't improved beyond this for a long time. Feel-good stories are excessively overdone. This isn't any different.But it still holds for a bit and good enough for a rainy day.
Disney loves to anthropomorphize anything non-human. To anthropomorphize robots was a natural step, except Fox Studios did it first and I think they did it better.Wall-E is a robot on the planet Earth who is a type of robot made specifically for compacting solid waste. Earth was abandoned by humanity after they turned it into a wasteland of metal and other debris. It looked like your typical episode of 'Hoarders' except the junk covered the entire planet.Wall-E, like your typical animated robot, behaves very much like a human. He has emotions and desires like a person, and those desires were amplified when he met an advanced robot named EVA. She was on Earth simply to survey the planet and find out if it was inhabitable again. Wall-E's desire for her was so strong he followed her back to her space station and he actually awoke her own consciousness and desires. It would have been cute if I could expel from him mind that they were two machines and they could say something other than 'Wall-E' and 'Eva' over and over again.This movie didn't move me, though it's clear that it was supposed to. Wall-E was willing to sacrifice himself for Eva and Eva was willing to do anything for Wall-E. They almost lost each other when Wall-E fried his motherboard, but like an infinite number of other movies out there, through the power of love Eva saved him as well as saving what was left of humanity.To me it was trite, tired, and passé. I actually fell asleep my first time trying to watch it. Wall-E is a robot love story in a dystopian setting. All they were missing were little hybrid robot children to complete the picture.
What can one say about this movie that hasn't already been said? That it's a masterpiece? That, along with any other praise has already been given to Pixar's truly greatest achievement. WALL-E is the only Waste Allocation Load Lifter left on Earth. He, along with many other units where created by the company BnL, in an attempt to clean the mess of trash on Earth, while the humans would take a 5 year cruise on the Axiom spaceship and await the result, without having to face the consequences of their actions on their home Planet. 700 years later, Our WALL-E is the only one still functioning, and is now the only inhabitant of the planet, as there has been no news in regards to the humans. The fact that WALL-E is presented to us with such a human personality, other than building empathy for the character, works in a sense that having lived alone on the planet for so long, he started to understand it and see it with curiosity, a primary human emotion, while still serving his purpose of waste allocator. Onother great personality trait is that of EVE, who before encountering WALL-E, was but one of many Extrterrestrial Vegetation Evaluators, but after receiving a different form of attention, it started to express it's emotions in a different way. For example, when she first arrives and begins her search for biological life, she has a very robotic approach to it, but as she starts to receive a new type of attention, she begins to feel more human like when she can't find what she is looking for, getting frustrated and vocally expressing it. That which happened to EVE, also happened to all other robots on the ship, who altogether where a perfect system, but when an outsider came into the mix, the system didn't work anymore. An example of that are the 'roads', that the humans aboard and robots use to move. As soon as WALL-E steps into it, he causes the probably first collision to have ever happened. The great developmental trait in regards to the Captain, and the two people WALL-E has an encounter with, is that no matter how much the human body has changed, how ignorant they are about their past, and how much they now rely on technology, all that doesn't extinguish the prime human emotion: Curiosity. It is that which brings the human protagonists to regain themselves as humans. Another non accidental detail, is the resemblance between the Autopilot and HAL-9000 of Stanley Kubrick's 2001: a space odyssey. They are both fundamental pieces of the ships they are built into, and have very similar personality traits: when HAL felt threatened buy the fact that the protagonists where having a conversation of him behind his back, he reacted in a very animalistic way, by trying to eliminate the threat, and when he faced his potential demise, he had a very human like reaction to it, almost as if he was feeling pain. The Autopilot reacted very similarly when he could not close the output where WALL-E would have had to place the plant, in order to put the ship en route towards Earth. He smashed the button in anger, as if it would have helped more than just pushing it. There are really no flaws in WALL-E, it is sufficiently drammatic, comical, intense and is just the right length. The animation is a thing of beauty, as are the characters, the story and the designs of the robots. Even without considering the many other meaningful themes in the story and characters, WALL-E remains to this day, and will for a long time hold it's place as one of the Giants of Cinema.
This is truly a great piece of an adolescent movie about a group of high school boys who foolishly follow their conspicuous leader, Rob, as he carries out what seems to be a typical 'geek to glamour' plot on a young boy named Simon Glass. I'd recommend this movie to anyone who is interested in a semi-grim, mysterious thriller surrounding a very ordinary, and yet extraordinary, group of teenage boys in the mists of the high school environment.
The film starts in the year 2700, having as main scenario our planet, basically uninhabited. It presents itself as a large garbage dump, in which the main character of the film, Wall-e (Waste Allocation Load Lifters - Earth), works to compact and organize all this rubble, alone, since his professional companions are already spoiled. So he and his pet cockroach are the only inhabitants of that gray planet.Wall-e, like other robots, were sent to Earth by the company BNL to perform this service. Meanwhile, human beings protect themselves from all the toxicity of our planet on the Axiom space station. The plan was that they would only stay there for five years, waiting for the completion of such work to return to our planet; but they end up staying for about 700 years. To check if the Earth is already habitable, the company sends robots there, one of which is Eva (Alien Vegetation Examiner), who will fall in love with the main character (and vice versa).It takes almost 40 minutes to appear the first human called normal, in 3D animation, and what you see is that the biped race is accommodated, all obese, sitting, being served by machines, hostages of technology and the inherent vices to be always connected. Behavioral criticism is evident, and all paranoia of humans with possibilities of contamination due to the planet or even Wall E is the simple and best example of how stuck the routine of doing nothing they are. There are two demarcations that demonstrate the criticism of Stanton's script, Jim Reardon based on the argument of the director himself and Pete Docter, who is the beginning of the film, showing the planet taken from plastic, paper and dirt in general, and also the super screens that entertains and distracts obese men, who do nothing but eat and spend their time shopping or watching some silly and futile show.WALL · E has one of the most critical messages to society made in a Pixar film, perhaps on par with Up - Altas Aventuras. With a script of minimal dialogues and quite dense concepts such as ideology, axiom (which is the name of the ship), mass culture and alienation, especially in favor of the media + machines, the film puts humanity at a limit that does not seem to us like so impossible, distant, unreal. If we take away the great scope of futuristic technology that marks the feature, including in its visual and conceptual references to films of the genre such as 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) and Plant of the Apes (1968), it is possible to see its raw material in our time, from the rampant and irresponsible production of garbage, as well as pollution, fires and other environmental disasters caused by human action; from the criticism of the criticism of the media to a complete alienation through a screen or an information bulletin; unhealthy inactivity; growing consumption; the distance between generations; the greater difficulty in making and maintaining human ties.The film discreetly criticizes the methods of advertising and the impact it has on people, who begin to buy products without the slightest need. Another reflection that the film exhibits is the issue of individualism. Individualism can be considered a way to avoid the problems experienced in this period, but it causes the distance between people and generations. Today, we can see some similarities, can't we? The space between people is getting bigger and bigger. In the past, the forms of interaction were more intense. The distance is the result of the accelerated growth of cities, of mass communication vehicles that dictate rules of consumption and the use of new technologies in an unbridled way. Wall-E shows us that it is necessary to relearn how to use technology and to know how to manage time efficiently and intelligently, without leaving it dependent on us and slaves, providing more and more new spoiled generations who are more and more accustomed to having 'everything in the hand with a simple snap of the fingers, guided by immediacy and by giving more value to digital relationships than face-to-face ones.Pixar's already famous self-references and full approximation with creations from our world, such as Isaac Asimov's laws of robotics that all robots in the film obey; Stephen Hawking's voice as a building parameter for AUTO; basic models of Spanish architecture Santiago Calatrava; NASA projects and numerous references to Apple (Steve Jobs was involved in the beginning of the project and is credited with the thanks for the feature) make WALL·E a whole ocean of creativity, one of those movies that you watch with great pleasure and end the session definitely more passionate about life and cinema. There are few scientific fictions that have such a tender history and such a great civilizing greatness - starting from a text with a small number of words -, starting at a point without hope and beginning to rebuild a world; the resumption of humanity, spoiled by itself, generations before. The question that doesn't stop is: are we following the same path?And all of this becomes even more impressive when we realize that Wall-E is almost a silent film. Its first part, with harmonious and romantic photography, is marked only by the noises and sounds of a polluted and uninhabited environment. The second part, already in the Axiom nave with its strong contrast photography (in various color palettes) but predominantly sterile, has some computer voices and few human voices, but never to the point of becoming strongly relevant in the story, which is sustained by friendliness of the two protagonist robots.Director Andrew Stanton has always said in interviews that the central theme of WALL · E is love and his ability to win everything, including programming. Try to see that statement as widely as possible. From love to a romantic couple to the love of life. From robotics programming to ideological programming, both broken by the encounter of something so powerful that it can only be fully explained, in the film, by scenes from the musical Hello, Dolly! (1969), a moment of joy, love, music and dance amid loneliness and abandonment. The humanized details of WALL · E's 'home', his pet cockroach, the little plant inside his boot and the collection of human objects such as cutlery, magic cube, K7 tape (reproducing Put On Your Sunday Clothes, It Only Takes a Moment and La Vie en Rose) among many others, amplify the contrast between the two moments of the film, from its sentimental load to its lesson in citizenship and humanitarianism. Showing some scenes with real actors - a novelty among Pixar's productions - and maintaining the very high graphic quality of its animations, the ship's division with different configuration, details, lighting and colors (simulating small spaces in Las Vegas, Shanghai, Dubai and conceptual arts made for Tomorrowland) until taken from space and Earth, the film brings us so much to pay attention, observe and absorb that only one session is not possible to check it as it should.There are several scenes that impress, especially those located in space. One in particular deserves to be highlighted: the ballet of Wall-E and Eva, when they have fun flying outside the ship. It is a magical scene, due to the precise combination of visual and emotional beauty. At this point the film has already changed its history a lot, bringing to light what happened to the humans who left the Earth. And here comes another great idea from Pixar, with a critical analysis of modern society. Again, surprising. If Wall-E could be defined with just one word, perhaps the ideal would be grace. And if the ending sounds a bit obvious and predictable, we're already sufficiently captivated by this character and his universe to come to the happy conclusion that sometimes the obvious well done is exactly what we want. And if that's not enough, then there's that beautiful sequence of end credits, a real art history class, starting with cave paintings and moving on to Atari-style digital graphics. Geniuses.Can you imagine a story capable of provoking the most varied range of reactions possible in the viewer? Well then, so is Wall-E. At the beginning the scenario causes melancholy, then arouses curiosity, then comes interest, grace, laughter, sadness, tension, magic, suspense, fear, danger, regret, surprise, humor. , passion, tears, satisfaction, guilt, remorse, enthusiasm, excitement, love. Everything is there, mixed and arranged according to the precision of the gaze of those who observe here, knowing that that second chance may be something that we ourselves are not entitled to if we continue to ignore the universe around us.Wall-E is flawless in every way. There is a strong and relevant message to be transmitted, combined with a visual of great impact and with absurdly captivating characters - Wall-E and Eva are, from now on, the best couple in modern cinema! No matter what you read, this is a story that will always provoke new reflection. First-rate entertainment, respect for our intelligence and a product that can go beyond the obvious, by dealing with simple topics with wisdom and competence. There are films that bring about changes in society, raise questions and cause controversy. This, on the other hand, takes a step forward.
I was shocked when i first watched it to me it is complete and perfect.
Everything about this movie is amazing, it brings out so many emotions for me, i cannot watch it and not cry, it is just genius and so unique.
''What a movie'' This was what I am said when finished this film. Wall-E may be my most connected character ever. Wall-E is a robot who thinking like a human and this feature make sense when the other is exist. Everyone should watch this film due to demonstrated the importance of the other for mankind.
Wall. E is giving me positive vibes about artificial intellect xD and 90 percent of the movie wont even have any dialogues but you wont miss excitement for a second.pixar movies are the best!!.
This is exceeding expectation from Pixar. This movie is arguably the most beautiful movie of its decade. It also sends a positive message in a beautiful way.This was a very necessary movie so we can have an idea of what a beautiful animated movie can be.My favorite Pixar movie of all time 10/10.
Robot pick up trash then go space.Then kiss other robot.Make me sad but also happ-e.This movie gets 10 monkey wrenches out of 74.I pooped my pants then got some mommy milkies.
Simply one of the best movies ever. The love story between 2 robots is more than anything twilight has.
Silent movie for the most part, took me a while to watch it but i am glad i did..One of the best movie i have seen. Clap* clap* clap*
The sustainability film I chose to watch was WALL-E a Disney film produced by Pixar. In this potential future hundreds of years away, Earth has been desolated and now harbors trash and an unbearable climate. Yet a robot by the name of WALL-E accompanied by a spry cockroach lives a solitary life on the planet, entrusted to clean up the Earth after all human life abandoned the planet. Then one uneventful day a massive rocket comes barreling out of the sky and almost crashes on WALL-E. From this rocket, a robot named EVE emerges with a mission to find evidence that life could still exist on Earth. When EVE finds the plant that WALL-E had discovered, EVE races back to the mothership, where all of humanity has been living in deep space waiting for evidence that life still can exist on another planet. Once EVE returns with the plant, the overweight humans onboard don't realize the dramatic change their lives are undertaking. While the autopilot system onboard fights with old coding issues, the obese humans must remember their grassroots and take their first steps ever so that life on Earth may be redeemed. This film addresses a major issue with human behavior and could be a potential future if human actions do not change. The amount of waste produced today and the number of resources used could use up all of our natural resources, thus leaving us with two options either escape the planet into space and hope to find a new home or to protect our current home and reuse the current resources in ways that allow for reuse or don't net massive amount of pollution. The film, rather than looking at ways the planet has become more sustainable, gives us a potential future that we should wish to avoid. Therefore, to avoid such a travesty the film also emphasizes the dire need to plant health, by making the only green throughout the film the plant. This plant symbolizes hope and potential for the future of the human race to rebound from their mistakes or to be able to prevent further problems from occurring.
The story: 12/10
The animation: 12/10
The soundtrack: 12/10
Characters: 12/10Final results: A movie with a perfectly well made story, animation and soundtrack, with excellent characters, 100% worth watching.
As a child (I was 7 years old when the movie was released) i loved it because of Wall-E cause he was funny and lovely. But now as an adult as I understand the whole massage of it, I love the movie even more. Such a lovely made, heart warming movie with a very important massage that is more important than ever nowadays.
Walle has his own home to prevent a storm from getting in, and eve is another robot, and a company called buy-and-large.
Almost undeniably the second best Pixar film (after UP). Nostalgia is high for this one, everything about it is great from the animation itself to the plot and voice acting. It's a true classic Pixar film and loved by all.
Without repeating all the reasons others mentioned for placing this movie on top of the Best Movies Ever Made list, this is truly one and only story that mirrors all the good and the bad of the humanity, and offers the answers to the meaning of life (and it is not 47). The depiction of the humans as obese, ignorant, glued to the screens, slaves to the glaring propaganda created by AI, and devoid of real connection was such a true prediction it's scary! But there is always hope. And that is something to keep in our hearts and live by every moment of our lives.
Everyone has their favorite Pixar movies and their own opinions on which ones are the best. For me, this isn't their strongest one. Still, Pixar on their worst days is better than most other studios on their best. It's cute, touching, fun how so much of the movie is between two characters that can't actually talk. It's still pretty wonderful.
'I don't want to survive. I want to live.'
WALL-E is such an extraordinarily beautiful film.It's by far Pixar's most ambitious and unique film with very little dialogue, a very serious and important message, and phenomenal animation.Everything here thrives from the writing, the animation, the score, the direction, it's all beautifully made.The message is so important in this film. We need to take care of our earth, we need to take care of ourselves, and we need to take care of others. Along with that we need to make our own choices and we need to live.WALL-E, even though kind of difficult to say because of my love and nostalgia for Finding Nemo, Toy Story 2, and Monsters Inc., may be my all time favorite Pixar film. It's expertly made and such an enjoyable and moving watch.The cockroach waited in the same spot the whole time waiting for WALL-E ... I nearly cried.HOT TAKE: Sporks are only used as spoons and never forks. It's basically a less useful spoon and a useless fork.
This is a wonderful movie...
Its vote is 10...
This movie does some references at other movies of the Conema's History: 2001: A Space Odissey, Star Wars and Alien...
Andrew Stanton! I LOVE YOU.
Peerless Pixar. So much emotion and characterisation from a mostly gesture led film. My favourite of everything they've done.
WALL. E is a refuse disposal robot helping to tidy up planet Earth when he meets another robot called EVE.This is a brilliant film with some of the best visual storytelling I've ever seen.The story is wonderfully uplifting, full of comedy, emotion and a healthy amount of satire and social commentary.It says a lot by how invested you can be in two main characters who are not actually human but exhibit more humanity than the supporting characters who are.The movie's depiction of what people people could eventually become is quite thought provoking in an entertaining way. There is a lot to be said about mass consumerism, uselessness and the hypnotic control that is 'screen time'.There is nothing I can write that would do justice to how effectively the visuals communicate not only what is happening but the feelings of the characters. It is safe to say that a film with very little dialogue that can make my 5 year old daughter laugh and cry in the intended places due to the actions and mannerisms of two robots is an immense work of art.As always with Pixar, the animation is unbelievably realistic and full of beautiful, colourful and incredibly textured images. It's depiction of the future is not overly positive, but highly imaginative and up there with the best dystopian visions in classic cinema. The technology is very Apple in style, whilst at the same time it pays tribute to the more retro creations like the Short Circuit robot design of Number 5. Stanley Kubric's '2001: A Space Odyssey' is a massive influence and this is reflective in a number of nice homages.At the time of writing this is my favourite Pixar movie.
'Wall-E (2008)' is a masterclass in visual storytelling, with relatively little dialogue used to propel its somewhat thematically complex plot forward. I mean, its protagonist doesn't even have a mouth (though he is able to mimic a small amount of speech). Yet, its eponymous robot is an immensity expressive, empathetic and entertaining lead because he is rendered with so much life and given so much character. It really is amazing. The other mechanical beings in the affair are almost equally as eloquent, too. In general, the film is an immensely pleasant viewing experience. That's despite the fact that it deals with a post-apocalyptic future in which the Earth has essentially been reduced to one large trash pile. These heavy themes don't weight the affair down, though, primarily because it's always playful and maintains a sense of hope throughout its entire runtime. It's the sort of picture that can make you smile without doing anything other than showing you its endearing lead characters interact with one another. That's not easily done. Its underlying narrative is efficient and, though its attempts to force some conventional danger into the fray at certain points almost feel slightly forced, it's an incredibly well-written piece (regardless of its overall lack of dialogue). It's an enjoyable time with wonderful visuals, amazing animation and the uncanny ability to warm your heart. 8/10.
This movie is gorgeous beyond words and has an amazing message.This has been my all time favorite Pixar film since it came out. Only recently had it been tied with another, that other being Coco.
I remember when I was a young lad, just 10 or 11 years old, going to the cinema to watch Wall-E. In Lithuania, the movie is called 'WALL-E. Siuksliu princo istorija', which roughly translated to 'Wall-E. The story of the trash prince' and it was advertised like that in the movie theatre too. Upon my arrival, some kids were making fun of the poster, especially the trash prince part. I don't know why but that memory stayed with me for all those years. Looking back at it that's funny but I'm wondering why they decided to advertise that movie in Lithuania under that name.Speaking of the movie itself, it got the cute plot treatment from Pixar, as every other installment from them gets. Like that meme where Pixar's movies just go off the 'What if a soulless entity here had feelings?' idea, in this installment we have robots. Seeing robots have feelings in a different way than just a Rogue AI or a Turing Test fashion is unusual for me as of late. The plot is rather straightforward, though I like how the background details tell the story of how the Earth turned out the way it did. One of my favorite examples of that is just a quick look through all the captain portraits and seeing them drastically change in... well, body structure... throughout the 700 years.I don't think the credits of the movie often get any attention but Wall-E is a rare specimen that makes looking at credits and after credits actually makes it interesting. Something about the people trying to make Earth habitable again and doing little things to preserve the resources needed for their survival just looked interesting to me in a way that it made me think. There's a lot of room left for imagination but just trying to think how they're going to achieve that with just motivation and a guidebook just is so interesting to me that a few minutes of credits were enough to give this movie a whole new layer of awesomeness. And after that, we get to see the classic Pixar intro/outro with a bit of a twist. As the iconic lamp does its thing to the letter 'I' in 'Pixar', his light bulb doesn't turn on but that's where Wall-E comes to the rescue and changes his light bulb. This is as minor as it gets when talking about things that interest me. I don't believe I've ever seen someone talking about the credits of a movie before, so I really wanted to talk about that here, since they are actually good and give an epilogue to a movie without giving us too much.I feel like I haven't talked about the movie or its plot enough but I also don't feel like I have to. Pixar's style of emotional scenery is familiar to me since my childhood and Wall-E is as wholesome as it could get. The movie is great, at some points it even looks outstanding and I would recommend it to anyone who's having a bad day.
This is such a calm and relaxing movie with Great Emotion and humor. Incredible, especially because there is little talking.
[Pre-Chorus: Trippie Redd]
Ooh, baby, I need you in my life, in my life
Please, bae, don't go switchin' sides, switchin' sides
I swear this is where you reside, you reside
Please, bae, don't go switchin' sides, switchin' sides
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah[Chorus: Trippie Redd & XXXTENTACION]
Ooh-ooh, please don't throw your love away, huh
Please don't throw your love away, huh
Please don't throw your love away, huh
Yeah, yeah, yeah, ayy[Verse: XXXTENTACION]
I'm nauseous, I'm dyin'
(She ripped my heart right out)
Can't find her, someone to-
(My eyes are all cried out)
Lost it, riots, gunfire inside my head, I've
Lost it, riots, gunfire inside my head
That was quite the ride. Probably one of Disney's most unique and wonderful films in par with the classics. It has a delightful take on the sci fi genre and was wonderfully touching and somehow poetic.It somehow manages to captivate us with barely any dialouge whatsoever. Solid story with very good atmosphere and directing. Characters are quiet interesting in the sense that the main characters are robots and not humans. Wall-E a lonely robot who's only friend is a cockroach and Eve is a hard headed machine that only seems to answer to the 'directive'. The visuals were fantastic. How the world looked, the ship's design etc. And the music is great with likable voice acting.Overall a semi enjoyable film.Memorable: No Rewatchable: Unlikely..
I think our future is full of machines I think after seeing this movie one of the nicely and beautifully crafted cinema by one of best studio Pixar. Overall you can enjoy this film with all your family.
WALL - E is probably the best movie Pixar has ever made, as long as I live 'Finding Nemo' will always be my favorite. But regardless to 'Finding Nemo', this movie is probably the most creative and original Idea Pixar has ever made. We start on Earth where it has become an uninhabited planet, a little robot is tasked with reorganizing earth to it's original state. Things go out of order and the little robot goes on a quest that will decide humanity's fate. What makes this film so amazing is of course Wall - E. A dependent, funny, cute and wise robot who steals the attention at the very first second of the movie. Wall- E is unlike any other robot, he finds interest in everything and uses his knowledge and skills to survive on earth. He is also shown as having feelings and emotions towards others, such as when he first meets EVE. The chemistry between the two is adorable and captures the hearts of all the audience. Personally my favorites were Wall - E and M.O. they were so funny. I think there is absolutely nothing wrong with this movie, it is nearly flawless, this movie fits perfectly to the case of 'show, don't tell'. The exposition is shown directly and beautifully. Every moment of the film in general is shown marvelously and taught of real well: the axiom, the people moving around with floating chairs, the similarity between Auto the villain to the villain from 2001 A Space Odyssey, the relevance to today's world and plenty more. If Earth ever gets uninhabited (due to a global pandemic maybe?) So we will really feel the relevance to this movie, overall Wall - E is a masterpiece of cinema and animation, my favorite moments are when Wall- E is in space for the first time and when he and EVE are dancing in space (pure genius). If you haven't seen Wall - E yet so shame on you, go watch it! The best movie Pixar has ever created.
This movie is the best Disney movie ever. The story is fantastically thought out and is beautifully shown on screen. The innocence of WALL-E will bring you to tears. His story with EVE is lovely portraid. I would recommend the heck out of this story if you haven't already seen it.
This movie is amazing I can't tell how much I love the movie
Just as good as I remembered, really good animation for 2008 and memorable scenes.Wall-E and EVE were adorable together and cute watching them communicate with each other.One of the best Disney Pixar movies
Hello a very beautiful animation and emotions and funny friends are sure to watch this animation because it's wonderful
This entire movie was basically 'show don't tell' and it was done in a very beautiful way.The animation was gorgeous from start to finish and the interactions even though there was very little conversation. A must watch!
Out of every pixar film I have seen, this is the most interesting, different, and at moments depressing out of all of them. I could see this movie being a Sci Fi movie with live actors. This is not a KIDS movie. Although kids could watch it, this move is quite complex.This may be the most well done animated movie I have ever seen. good job pixar.
Wasn't expecting much before watching this but of course its an pixar movie so the animation would be great is all i had in mind,after watching this movie i was just sooo carried away by the story the characterization and the sounds everything is just amazing one of the best movies ever made.
I have poured online to see many people agree with the unanimous opinion that WALL-E is indeed Pixar's masterpiece. I was only a toddler and the industry was at the peak of CGI when it came out, so this film came out at a perfect time for me. As I get older, I've come to appreciate this film more and more for its protagonist, music, romantic sci-fi plot, animation and many other little qualities I didn't notice before. WALL-E is perhaps one of my favorite characters of all time. . . How he can be the Buster Keaton of science fiction is probably one of his best traits. I relate personally to him as a character and his love with EVE is all written perfectly. Please go watch this film. Your life will be better for it.
Didn't play the xbox 360 game it was based on but yeah good movie
Sad lonely robot boi meets white flying space bot and go on a space adventure in the future with fat future people. Need I say more? Very epic.It has a good moral about looking after the environmental for kids which is epic. I liked it as a child and still now.
This movie was so revolutionary in all the themes it explored and the way it was animated that we fell in love with it. Watching it again now (in 2021) was not a pleasure, though. It was more of a 'childhood ruined' moment. So, do yourself a favour and don't watch the movie again if you've already seen it. Much better left to our fond memories.I'm keeping my 9 stars here (rather than the 6 stars I would give it now) to honour the original beauty of the movie
39 years after starting out as nothing more than a special effects division of Lucasfilm, Pixar Studios has made an unparalleled impact on the modern history of animated film; starting with 1995's iconic Toy Story (which was the first feature-length computer-animated film ever), Pixar has revolutionized the animation industry with what has arguably become the 2nd Disney Renaissance, continually putting out innovative, imaginative new works that (almost) always walk that ever-so-fine line between entertaining younger audiences, while still managing to engage older ones, often capturing the hearts of both alike in the process. However, to me, no singular film in their oh-so-rich body of work stands out more than 2008's WALL-E, which is a one-of-a-kind mixture of sumptuously-animated visual storytelling, bold, imaginatively designed science-fiction concepts, and an overall overwhelming sense of wonder and emotion to ensure that, not only is it one of my favorite animated films, it's also just one my favorite FILMS, period.It tells the story of a lone little robot named WALL-E ('Waste Allocation Load Lifter Earth-Class'), a cute, curious fellow who also happens to be the last functioning unit in his series, and, who, in the not-too-distant future, has been left behind by a bound-for-the-stars mankind in order to clean up a planet Earth that has become so polluted so as to no longer be firt for habitation, in the hopes of eventually making the world fit to live on again, one day... someday. Day in and day out, WALL-E continues forward with his Sisyphean task of literally trying to clean up the entire planet on his own, gathering every little bit of garbage he comes across and compacting it (while saving whatever little knickknacks he finds interesting), and then stacking up the resulting cubes of trash until they tower over the desolate landscape as literal skyscrapers made out of garbage. It's a solitary life, his only companions being the non-operational WALL-Es he runs across here and there (which he then scavenges for spare parts), an oddly loyal, plucky cockroach with an enduring love of Twinkies, and WALL-E's passion for classic musicals like Hello, Dolly!, the music of which he plays as he rocks himself to sleep each and every night, all alone in the world.However, all of that changes when another, far more advanced robot named EVE ('Extra-terrestrial Vegetation Evaluator') literally drops out of the sky one day, on a search for a sign that Earth has become habitable again, a task that brings her across the path of WALL-E. From there, an unlikely but unbreakable romance will grow between the two of them, as as they set out on a journey that will take them to the farthest stars and beyond, and end up fundamentally determining the fate of all mankind itself. So that's the basic set-up of the story, but the real appeal of WALL-E lies in its incredible storytelling, as Stanton utilizes a mostly-silent, almost completely dialogue-free, visually-based style here, one that's not only unusual for a G-rated Disney release, but for any kind of film period, as it's more akin to Kubrick's legendary 2001: A Space Odyssey than anything else, really, an incredibly ambitious style for an equally ambitious film.The depth of emotion that Stanton squeezes out here through the magnificent imagery is simply breathtaking, going from a completely desolate Earth to an impeccably sleek, futuristic spaceship and back again, with enough scope and detail to outmatch a thousand other movies if one were to compare. He respects his young Pixar audience (and us older viewers as well) to have the patience to digest the film as it plays out in relative silence, resulting in beautifully visual, incredibly rich tableaus of post-apocalyptic/sci-fi visuals to dazzle our eyes, and engage our minds. The scientific concepts presented in WALL-E are incredibly well-developed, especially for a so-called 'children's film', showcasing a garbage-brown, deserted Earth that we've polluted so much that it's no longer habitable by humans, an entire ship-bound society of people that are so sedentary, they've started to lose their ability to even move around on their own (which helps the film squeeze in some welcome commentary on corporate monopolies, obesity, and technology addiction), and of course, the central romance that blossoms between two 'mere' robots.WALL-E & EVE learn to love throughout the various hardships and genuine, patient relationship-building they experience throughout the film, as the romance that develops between them has far, FAR more emotion in it than most live-action human couples have on screen, easily, and the incredibly expressive 'bots of WALL-E display genuine loneliness, fear, and of course, love, and do it just as well as any real human actors ever had, all while barely saying anything more than each other's names. It's one of my favorite on-screen pairings in film history, animated or not, and the way that WALL-E the robot follows EVA to the ends of the universe, so too would I follow WALL-E, the film, to the ends of this Earth; it's just that good.
I don't get all the reviews calling this a masterpiece. It's a good movie because of the effects but the story has extremely few moments that make you laugh or feel any connection with what is happening. It doesn't bring emotion to you.
The obvious thing is that 'WALL-E' depicts a future wherein the humans have abandoned Earth due to pollution, and so a robot spends his days cleaning up the trash.But something else caught me about the movie. In the scene where WALL-E goes to the spaceship, he finds people inhabiting it. Specifically, humanity has degenerated into the types of people depicted in Mike Judge's dystopian 'Idiocracy': braindead couch potatoes addicted to the latest products and having no real interaction with each other. Is that where we're headed?Anyway, it's an interesting movie. Not the greatest movie by any measure, but worth seeing. I liked the references to Stanley Kubrick's '2001'.
This is the best cartoon I've even seen! LoL I'm 17 yo and cried because of WALL-E
If I can give it 100/10 I will definitely do it!
One of best animated movie , i have watched. this movie says the importance of life and we have to protect our enivironment.
This is one of movies that I think got Oscar because it deserved it. I remember watching this movie when it was just released, and now the experience is no different. Good graphics, scientific, emotional, environmental, humane. There is all I expected and nothing is missing. Inspirational and motivational. Inspires us to be creative in and to think about environment. Motivates us to be engineers, build robots, clean planet, improve future and health. Bit funny and sad. Positive end. Could me representation of artist or of mentally sick person or of environmental or robotic organization. Could be seen in many ways and can teach us in many ways. Also innovative, because it tries to represent many possibilities like how robots would appear if they were alive, how we could appear if we keep certain habits, how technology can affect us positively and negatively. Bit scary showing us suffering consequences of scientific ignorance, but nothing that can't be improved and fixed. Also good in form of video game.
WALL-E (stylized with an interpunct as WALL·E) is a 2008 American computer-animated science-fiction romance film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It was directed and co-written by Andrew Stanton, produced by Jim Morris, and co-written by Jim Reardon. It stars the voices of Ben Burtt, Elissa Knight, Jeff Garlin, John Ratzenberger, Kathy Najimy and Sigourney Weaver, with Fred Willard in the film's (and Pixar's) only prominent live-action role. The overall ninth feature film produced by the company, WALL-E follows a solitary robot on a future, uninhabitable, deserted Earth, left to clean up garbage. However, he is visited by a probe sent by the starship Axiom, a robot called EVE, with whom he falls in love and pursues across the galaxy.After directing Finding Nemo, Stanton felt Pixar had created believable simulations of underwater physics and was willing to direct a film set largely in space. WALL-E has minimal dialogue in its early sequences; many of the characters do not have voices, but instead communicate with body language and robotic sounds designed by Burtt. The film criticizes consumerism, corporatocracy, nostalgia, waste management, human environmental impact and concerns, obesity, and global catastrophic risk. It is also Pixar's first animated film with segments featuring live-action characters. Following Pixar tradition, WALL-E was paired with a short film titled Presto for its theatrical release.
This is definitely one of the best animated movies I have ever seen. Animations are absolutely beautiful and the story is heartwarming. WALL-E is such a lovable character ( I didn't know I would ever care about a little robot so much). This is a movie that I think both children and adults will love!
When I started Wall-E, with all the '10/10' reviews, I was expecting a great animation movie, even more: I was expecting a masterpiece, a true classic. Really.Before I go on, let's define what a true classic is. A true classic has at least 4 of these characteristics:
1. The story is really compelling, interesting and enough logical to not make you too suspicious or ask too many questions.
2. The characters are interesting, have true goals and are clearly empathetic or antipathetic ( You either genuinely root for them or hate them ).
3. The ambiance and depicted universe are so great you don't feel the clock is ticking.
4. The visual is truly polished or even totally outstanding and has astonishing moments.
5. The music is memorable. You can actually recall the main theme in your head without effort or at least one of the soundtrack ( Example: If I say Steve Jablonsky, Transformers 1 ? )'Terminator 2' respects all of these criteria. 'Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse', to cite a movie in the 3D animation register, has 4 of them. Wall-E has none, yes, none of them, yet, people dare give the film the highest possible note, surely blinded by their feelings.Concerning the story, Wall-E is riddled with problems and from the first minutes of the film. Yes, I know, very few animation movies are made to be a realistic or logical plot wise, but some issues are so blatant they succeed to throw you out of the ambiance ( As a basic example: VHS cassettes have a 25 years lifetime AT BEST. There is NO way Wall-E could be able to read one after this period ). Some plot elements are so illogical they go against BASIC survival instincts.Concerning the characters, Wall-E is somewhat interesting at the beginning but becomes immediately irritating when he decides to completely give up on its main goal as soon as EVE appears, because the main theme of the movie is...blind LOVE, duh ! Worse, you cannot hate Auto, the A.I of the space ship which is supposed to be evil, because it's actually right, and you cannot root for the captain, because his decisions are eventually pretty stupid and entirely based on his feelings, not his brain.The ambiance is also average. You can feel they tried to pass a lot of propaganda messages about love ( of course ) and especially the future of humanity and how we would evolve if we lived in a world where nearly everything was automated. The issue is that it stays superficial and it's sometimes becomes so parody you finish to be...thrown out of the universe Pixar tries to put you in. Some parts are annoyingly longer than they should be ( When EVE is sent to be fixed or when she is outside the spaceship with Wall-E ). To finish, the humor falls flat. A LOT.The visual also has issues. Some are claiming this is the best Pixar ever made on a visual POV. Let's agree to disagree. I bet they should watch 'Ratatouille' again, released a year before, where Pixar actually cared about the humans models, which here, are pretty simplistic. I could also compare with 'Happy Feet' released in 2006. Also, I don't get why we got to see real human figures in the movie. This mix is fortunately not always used but when it is the case, again, it throws you out of the ambiance. Concerning the rest, the movie is pretty OK but sports NOTHING visually outstanding.To complete, Wall-E has NO memorable soundtrack. At all. So ? Why all the 10/10 ? I guess...Feelings. Wall-E and Eve represent the perfect image of the 'dream' couple a lot of people want real life to ship: The clunky adorable nerdy guy with a big heart the beautiful damsel falls in love with, because she finally saw all of his good sides with time. Well, for me, Wall-E is a criminally overrated movie not deserving more than 6/10. Pixar already released better flicks. Before and since. Next.
Seen Wall-E for the first time and was more than convinced. Superbly made animated movie that manages to stage a serious and real subject in such an appealing, simple and at the same time funny way.
You immediately establish an emotional connection to Wall-E and the entire environment. Machines are at the center. There you have difficulties to show facial expressions and gestures as extensively as with humans. But this movie succeeds in doing that.
Very little is spoken throughout the movie, but that doesn't affect the valence. The movie is not boring, nor do you feel like you lose information or you don't understand the overall plot or actions. The movie works a lot with the images shown and the soundtrack.
Wall-E respectively the mankind is on an odyssey in which the future way of life is in the center. In the process, they go through a new beginning and do a developmental step in evolution. '2001: A Space Odyssey' prepared for a different audience.
There is nothing unique or special about this movie. My girlfriend forced me to watch it and I hated it!It's a lonely robot completely devoid of personality who spends the whole movie in some emo-like state.I'm sure some environmentalist will probably find this to be 'profound', but only if they had the intelligence of a 5 year old.There are a hundred other movies that have told the same story of the 'trashy earth that humans ruined'. This one adds nothing original.
I really don't have much to say about this movie, it's simply wonderful.
The music was amazing, the script was very impressive also.
I was a bit skeptical about this one at first because it shows a devastated Earth and and I was afraid it would terrified me somehow but it was a actually beautiful surprise.
This movie is so cute, I almost cry in all of it! Its a great movie with beautiful and inovated history, a perfect one to watch with all the family
Wall E, originated, directed & written by Andrew Stanton & Peter Docter, was easily one of Pixar's best! Andrew Stanton shows once again that he is one of the best directors in the Pixar family, yet again making another instant CLASSIC! He incorporated so many magnificent shots, utilizing the perfect balance of slow, wide, and close up shots.The story was well told, being an innocent, yet complex rom-com, while having some great sentimental notes. Don't be fooled, even though this is technically a children's movie, there is so much adult entertainment, that the whole family will do nothing but fall in love with this film! The first act is one of the most enjoyable first acts Pixar has offered yet. Stanton & Docter started off building this grimmy world, set about 700 years from now, incorporating these two polar opposite, but super charming and enjoyable robots in Wall E & EVE. Their chemistry and charm is what drove this film! With the first half started off with a bang, come the second half, it gets taken to a whole other level! This is where Wall E & EVE get their defining moments, with greatly placed action.Wall E, voiced by Ben Burtt was one of Pixar's most lovable protagonist, though having this rusty, ruggid look, and not having much to say. His humanized traits, curiosity, and pure charm is what made his character so lovable. EVE, voiced by Elissa Knight, was a very intelligent robot solider, that turns out to have great character development. She basically steals the main protagonist label from Wall E, though sharing the wealth very generously. Stanton & Docter somewhat refrained from giving us true back stories to our main characters, but in return, they gave us good information to be able to infer where they comes from.The screenplay didn't have much importance in the first thirty-five minutes or so, but come the second, and mainly the third act, Pete Docter & Andrew Stanton put together a well thought-out, passionate script, incorporating a lot of heart.The cinematography and animation was absolutely GORGEOUS! The back drops were so deatiled and vibrant, really mashing well with the vibrant colors, and color contrast. The animations were stunning as always, with realistic detail in the metals, dirt, rocks, and everything in between.The score by the very popular Thomas Newman, was very dramatic, and created this great connection between the audience and the characters. The music was a pretty good touch, really coming alive in the third act.
It's such a great movie! I could watch it over and over again! And it's definitely one of the best movies ever!!!
The first hour or so of this film is some of the best pure cinema on the aughts. WALL-E and EVE are fully drawn characters with more personality than a lot of human characters. The same holds true for supporting characters like M-O and the cockroach. The basic why on the state of the world is told through demonstration and implication. There's very little dialogue-almost all incidental-present. The plotting, animation, direction and sounds are strong enough to convey the information. This brilliant quality of pure cinema exists anytime the story is entirely focused on EVE and WALL-E. Unfortunately, the film widens its focus to include human characters.The film is a critique on the dependence people can have on technology-and an eco-fable warning against excessive consumerism. The humans in the story are blinkered-alive but not living-consumption machines. WALL-E function in the story is to awaken humanity up from its slothful, gluttonous way. (As a Disney property this message is hypocritical.) This is conveyed in a ham fisted, utterly lazy and banal way. The humans are animated to be little more than large blobs of fat. My objection here is not that such a decision is offensive or plays into harmful stereotypes-one can argue that. But *my* problem is so simple and rote. The filmmakers used cultural stereotypes to avoid the hard work of *demonstrating* the theme. The first hour being so magical in the amount of information it conveys is greatly let down by the backhalf of the story being so artless, blunt with its points.
An unforgettable Pixar masterpiece. For a moment I forgot that the film is animated because it is so well made.
There's been a lot of hype surrounding this movie for as long as I can remember but I never really got the chance to watch it. Now at age 18, I finally have a Disney plus subscription, so this has become possible. And I have to say, I hate myself for not watching it sooner.
At first, the film didn't seem at all promising. The colour palette that was used in creating the garbage-ridden earth was extremely dull, and that alone was enough to make me lose interest. But as the movie progressed, the story grew more and more engaging.
What's really impressive is the fact that there's hardly any dialogue, yet the film makers were able to communicate a love story as genuine, comical and heartwrenching as that of the two main characters. Throughout the film I found myself so lost in the plot that I never wanted it to end. I felt all sorts of emotions when watching, and at certain points, I even found myself audibly rooting for some of the characters which is a pretty big deal because I haven't been this moved by any film in a really long time.I don't know about the rest of you but this is easily one of my top three animated movies of all time, and probably my top Pixar movie as well. Still up for debate though. But nonetheless, I strongly recommend it to anyone who's ever considered watching it, no matter your age, because I guarantee you, it's gonna be an amazing ride.
First, I must say that the animation is amazing. Pixar as it's best. The scene that looks like New York made from pile of garbages is stunning.About the story, I really like Wall-E character. He's likeable. The first part (before him escape to join Eve) is amazing. It's like poetry. After this, it looks like a social satire. It's funny but the message is predictable and it seems more like one action scene after another.So, I still find about animation that it's a amazing piece of art, but about the story, it lacks something in the second part.
I'm very late to the party on this, obviously, but I have rarely been so blown away by a film. Simply viewed as an attempt to round out my list of completed animated Disney films, I was gifted with exquisitely detailed animation, a heart-enveloping story, and characters so charming, their inability to form complete sentences doesn't even register. It easily eclipses almost every film I've seen to date with it's intricate detail and sweepingly epic emotional journey. It's simple, but incredible, and I will be re-watching it.
The objective of this work is to analyze and discuss the dialogues that the film Wall-E (2008) allows for the understanding of the Marxist Theory of Critical Environmental Education. Animation is an important medium that works as a window to reality, so that people can see, in a playful way, the things that surround them, so that in this way they reflect on the daily problems related to their social practices. Cinema is the seventh artistic expression, characterized by moving images with the use of techniques and visual effects. But cinema is not just the movement of images through a projector, it involves a complex ritual of different elements and processes that include: production, distribution, investment, advertising, taste, among many other social relationships (BERNARDET, 1980). And, in addition to capturing people's attention with its aesthetic language, cinema can mobilize, in a playful way, relevant issues of daily life and beyond. However, the cinema constitutes a social process, and as such it has political, ideological and economic influences, with that, it is necessary a mediation, theoretically based, so that it can be a critical and reflective medium in fact. Therefore, the Marxist Theory of Critical Environmental Education allows the individual to identify himself as an integral part of nature, so that he is able to perceive and value the environmental and socio-cultural diversity, so that they can adopt coherent attitudes within their community (LOUREIRO, TOZONI-REIS, 2005). In addition, it points to the need to build active citizenship, in which people participate in the processes of social transformation and constitute new paradigms that consolidate a more just and environmentally healthy society (CICONELLO, 2008). The 98-minute animated Wall-E, directed by Andrew Stanton, from Disney and Pixar Studios, takes place in a dystopian future in which planet Earth is uninhabited due to the extreme deterioration of the environmental conditions that humans have been exposed to. responsible, due to exploitation and excessive consumption and the consequent production of waste, affecting the release of toxic gases into the atmosphere, the contamination of soil and river resources, making life on Earth impossible. In this way, the robot Wall-E, and others like it, were responsible for cleaning the planet while humans are on a kind of space cruise. However, the recovery plan fails and Wall-E, the last of its model, continues to carry out its work, until one day a ship with a robot from another model, called EVA, appears unexpectedly, which Wall-E falls in love and will take him to the space cruise, which will lead to several situations. Given this, it is intended, through Qualitative Research, to analyze the film in question. Such research is concerned with the process and the scenario to which it will relate, being more concerned with the process than with the final product, thus differing from quantitative research, as the researcher intends to understand how the problem manifests itself in social interactions ( MINAYO et al. 2016). In this perspective, the film was analyzed from two axes, the first of which concerns the issue of garbage, in which the story consists of a metaphor for the consequences of excessive production of it on Earth by human beings. In this way, it is in line with a trend in environmental conservation education that only focuses on awareness and behavioral issues that aim to individualize solutions, that is, the resolution of environmental problems in this trend will take place through individual actions (ADAMS, 2005 ). However, in Critical Environmental Education, the solutions are collective, mainly concerning the productive system of today's society. The second axis refers to a great contradiction that the film presents, due to the fact that social, economic and political issues are not addressed, suggesting that they are resolved. However, it is worth noting that both the issues of excess waste and excessive consumption are linked to social, economic, political and ideological issues, among others. Such questions support the capitalist system of opposition between classes that are maintained from the exploitation of the working class by the dominant class (LEFF, 2001). In this way, the film, even though it presents a dystopia that occurs from a real problem, solves and ignores the question of class struggle, showing itself, therefore, idealistic. Thus, the film is an important means of debating environmental issues, based on their potential, but also on their deficiencies, aiming at the formation of critical and reflective citizens who act actively in society.Film reviewed on December 15th.
Very wonderful film!One of the best movies I've seen lately! Every scene was so well crafted. The graphics of WALL-E on Earth are incredible. You can tell that Pixar THOUGHT about what they were creating, as opposed to just thinking about how to make a buck. Funny thing is, they are going to do just that. This is going to be a blockbuster! Instead of filling their movie with snappy, sassy or suggestive one-liners (as virtually every other movie company would have done) Pixar filled it with sweet and simple emotions, conveyed through tiny gestures, eye movements, sighs and vocals. There's virtually no dialogue whatsoever. Don't think for one moment you'll be bored with that, though. You'll be hoping WALL-E can win the girl (robot) and rooting for him all the way! (I'm not going to reveal any plot details -- just go see it!) Hey, this movie made me LIKE his little cockroach sidekick, and made me believe that two robots were MEANT to fall in love
Ok it's my 2nd time writing the review as first one got deleted by mistake.So it was a very beautiful movie with good pacing plot. It brought up all king of reaction of silly, funny, and seeing the dystopian future...sad.
It also depicted how thinking out of crowd can make a huge difference. Captain's character was very well portrait, Wall E's and EVE's chemistry was also very enjoyable. (14 Dec 20)
Very beautiful animated film with well-paced plot. It was humorous, silly, and also terrifying.
At one place where Wall E, Eve, the Cockroach,human, and other kind robots made us laugh, on other hand dystopian looking Earth(which we still have) gave us sad and strong message.
Wall E, Captain, and later Eve thinking out of the crowd and making huge difference was wonderful to see. (14 Dec 20)
I love WALL-E so much because Pixar pulled off a true miracle, by making a romantic love story between two robots (in an old-timey, silent film-style) actually work and feel genuinely sincere (it's downright charming to watch). Shockingly enough, it's way more compelling than most human love stories are in live-action romcoms (especially in all those formulaic made-for-TV Christmas films, where all the romantic elements between the two leads feels awkwardly contrived). Here though, it all flows organically and felt like a natural extension of the wider story as the film progressed on.For the first half-hour or so, there's no audible lines of spoken dialogue (at least, nothing that's clearly understandable, say for a few robotic 'beeping' sounds). The only lengthy conversations the robot characters have is just them repeating their own names, over and over again (which actually wasn't as obnoxious as I expected it to be). In fact, there're actually a few certain points where it feels very much so like a silent moving-picture from the 1920s. And it shows, as the good folks over at Pixar Studios did a heck of a lot of research on a bunch of old Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton shorts and features (and quite possibly some Laurel & Hardy, for good measure). For a studio like Pixar to come out do something like this, especially in this day and age, it's a pretty gutsy thing to get away with (and I wholeheartedly commend them for doing it).Yep! The staff at Pixar sure know about the rule of 'show don't tell', which basically means that you should at least try and attempt tell your story through the visuals onscreen, like with the actors' body language and facial expressions (rather than having a heap load of exposition). I mean, the sheer range of different emotions the computer-animators were able to get out of just WALL-E alone was excellently conveyed and you can tell exactly how his character is feeling at the right time (getting a machine to actually emote is a huge accomplishment, in a sort of way to where it's almost considered high-art). And this is precisely the reason why I LOVE Pixar so much, it's because they're a big American movie studio that doesn't pander to simpletons. They make smart, intelligent, thought-provoking, introspective films which feel personal and have a truly deeper message and hidden meaning than most (if not all) of the other cartoon features out there in the world. Their way of doing things is all about the high-concept sort of stuff, which maybe a bit too complex for the average person to properly comprehend.The cleverly-construed social commentary is another great aspect of the film. It's incredible to think that a film about the criticisms of consumerism and corporatocracy, enforced by a massive conglomerate industry, was actually co-produced by Disney (of all companies!). It plays-out like a straight-up cautionary tale, warning about the severe, real-world dangers of waste pollution mismanagement, the devastating environmental impact us humans are leaving on our delicate planet's fragile ecosystem, the growing concerns that we as a society have for a major catastrophic event to happen on a global scale... and, of course, the high-risks of morbid obesity. Some people may see this film's message of 'save the Earth' as blatant pandering to environmentalists, but to tell you the truth, it doesn't really come off the way one would think as it's so-called 'propaganda' isn't shoved directly in your face every second the post-apocalyptic scenery is onscreen (after all, this is Disney we're talking about here, so they're going to give you some slight semblance of a hopeful outlook for the future).There also seems to be some religious parallels going on; in the Bible, a lonely Adam is given the gift of companionship as God creates Eve to be with him. In WALL-E, the last remaining robot on Earth (who's also extremely lonely) has been by himself for many years, left all alone to inhabit a filthy world of dirty trash. But then, he's destined to be visited by a more advanced newcomer (who, coincidentally, is also called Eve) who's travelled far beyond the stars to arrive at the once healthy planet for a thorough investigation into there being any new signs of sustainable organic life on the now sterile planet (see, it's almost as if she's been brought down from the heavens above to be with him). I'm not sure if any of this was intentional or not, but it could've purely been just one big coincidence (I just thought it was interesting to note).You can clearly tell that WALL-E was the work of a real filmmaker with actual creative freedom (because he's an auteur who has a nack for innovative storytelling in an animated format), and not solely the mass-produced product of a soulless, money-grubbing corporation (which is what The Disney Company has kind of turned into, nowadays). The film was director Andrew Stanton's artistic vision, and it'll always remain that way (much like Pete Docter and Brad Bird, Stanton also has his own unique flair for this type of art form).
So basically like there's mr walle he's alone on earth and he collects trash for a living then this girl Eva comes along and he starts simpimg for her and comes along with her on the ship full of sad fat people and eva and walle act all cute there and there's a fat captain and he's like yo I want to go to earth and they find a plant and go back to earth and walle man and Eva girl kiss then everything ends happy and all the people are happy.
Several hundred years in the future, earth is a desolate wasteland of rubbish that robot WALL-E spends his time sorting & compressing when one day he is joined unexpectedly by a futuristic robot named Eva who is hostile towards him at first but then she warms to him & they become close.WALL-E then shows Eva a single solitary plant he's found & Eva then takes the plant before she then shuts down & goes into hibernation mode & then shortly after she is taken back to the space ship she came from but WALL-E manages to grab hold of the rocket sent for Eva & he sneaks on board what he then discovers is a space cruise ship full of overweight, overindulgent humans who have been holidaying on there for centuries.The captain of the space cruise ship then learns of the discovery of the plant which, he learns, is the key to him & the humans going back home to earth where they can prosper again but when some rebel robots try to stop this from happening it's up to him, WALL-E & Eva to save the day & get the plant & space cruise ship back to earth in order for humans to flourish once again.The film is slow to start with very little dialogue but it develops into a lovely heartwarming story of love, hope & humour. Definitely worth watching!
WALL-E is unlike anything else Pixar has ever released. It has the same core values and follows a very similar formula for concocting a relationship between the characters and the audience, but this film is so uniquely different that it's an unquestionable stand-out moment in Pixar's history.WALL-E begins with 40 beautifully animated minutes devoid of dialogue in perhaps the most Kubrickian animated moment I've ever seen in my life. And yet, without any solid dialogue save for the adorable WALL-E and Eve interaction, it's still got enough heart and power behind it to make it a compelling and beautiful watch.It's a film with an overwhelmingly positive message as well. I would've imagined this film would've been a little difficult for an audience of children to be able to handle with their dwindling attention spans, but it's really encouraging that a film that focuses on the artistic side of storytelling above all else is so well beloved and successful. WALL-E is a one-of-a-kind film the likes of which we may never see again. Thank you Pixar.
And i dont mean the company. i mean that this movie goes beyond its limits. the way it makes us feel for a bunch of robots with very limited dialogue is truely amazing. one of, if not, the best movie of its kind.7/10: ye, the ratings are justified
Sure this is a cute movie but the sole purpose of it is to beat the children over the head with the message that we're destroying the planet....there literally is nothing else to this movie
Who doesn't love Wall-E after watching this? And, how can someone not love Wall-E after watching it? These are questions for which there are no suitable answer as the film is targeted at all audiences.Pixar Animation Studios 'knocks the ball out the park every time', and Wall-E is no exception. It's brilliant, witty, lovable and leaves you on the edge of your seat wanting Wall-E to succeed.A wonderful story for all ages. Loneliness, friendship, love, adventure, selflessness it has it all.Family fun for all. This Christmas sit down with the family and put it on.Highly recommended for anyone and everyone.
Saw this for the first time last weekend. A thought provoking look into a believable future scenario for planet Earth and mankind.The relationship between Echo and Wall.E was beautiful. It added an unexpected depth to the story.This film is much more than an animated film. It has depth and meaning which really struck a cord with me.Superb film. The most rounded and intelligent of all the Pixar (and Disney) films.
This movie is just amazing in every sense.. the story, the imagination, the incredible animation. It's a PIXAR movie at its best. All I can think of is how amazing the story tellers are PIXAR is, to come up with an idea like this. The story of wart being a waste land where a sole robot is cleaning up the place, and the way the love evolves with the new robot that's sent to check for life on earth, is just amazing. Loved every moment and can certainly watch again. Thanks to PIXAR for such an amazing piece of work!
One of the better animated films out there. Truly eye opening to our daily lives and actions.
I absolutely love this film. It is very imaginative and deserves all of the good credit it receives.
One of the best romance stories conceived happens to be animated as well. This movie truly does come a close second to Coco.
For a movie with no dialogue in the first 30 minutes, it did an amazing job of making you understand and feel for the characters. This movie and the amazing Ben Burtt are what inspired me to become a Post Production Audio Engineer.
Personal Rating: 10/10 (Outstanding)I still remember just how impactful this movie was on me when I saw it as a child. The visuals, storytelling, how it made you think. And 12 years later it still stands as one of the best movies Pixar has ever made, and truly a hallmark of animated films.The start of this movie. I could watch on an indefinite loop. The emotions you feel, the bond that grows between you and a robot in the introductory minutes, is storytelling at it's finest. No words have to be spoken and yet this movie world builds better than most 2-hour-long fantasy movies where the characters don't shut up.The visuals. The visuals in this movie are stunning, the way they direct the eye, immerse you in the world, make you laugh and make you cry, a huge credit to the artists who worked on this film. And also interestingly enough, to Roger Deakins, who contributed to the first 20 minutes of the film and to the animating team, as he consulted on how to light scenes, he's quoted saying 'the natural world that we live in just isn't as well-lit as your typical animated world.' So by darkening scenes, adding shadow and cutting the number of lights used, they added a huge layer of realism to WALL-E.The story, how you learn and feel about the characters (who the majority of are robots), the music, it's all superbly done. I can't think of anything I would change. But all this alone isn't what earns it the 10/10 rating, it's the themes, the tones, the way this 'for children' movie makes you think, that earns my full respect.For the most part, humans choose what's convenient, sacrificing privacy, health, well being, relationships and the like for that. WALL-E showed that exact point like never before. It takes effort to overcome the norm, to work towards a goal, even when it's not rainbows and peaches when one is determined they can do amazing things. Which is why the ending of this movie isn't bleak, it's inspiring. (spoilers) Humans come back to earth because of one lonesome plant. But it's enough to give them hope, and determination, to work on transforming the planet. And that was just one of the themes explored beautifully. I already know I'll be watching this movie again, and again.Thanks for reading my review.'I didn't know we had a pool!'
There are films you come across when you are flipping through the thousands of cable channels that stop you in your tracks and you just watch from wherever you came in. WALL-E is one of those films. So chock-full of tiny beautiful art pieces that I am inspired every time I watch it even 12 years later. Its' message is still relevant today and the imagery & sound is stunning even by today's standards. It never gets old. Thank you Pixar for this wonderful experience :)
Another marvelous Pixar masterpiece - directed by Andrew Stanton - that teaches us, with poetry, that life isn't about overconsuming and trashing Mother Earth. A pedagogical gem, which is part of the best films of all time.
WALL-E is currently the highest-rated Pixar movie on IMDb, and that is a title that it deserves. While WALL-E is not my favorite Pixar film, it is their most well-made. When I think about WALL-E, most people would think about robots, or about love. I think about art. WALL-E is by far the most artistic animated movie I've ever seen. I love how this movie can entertain and immerse me with almost no dialogue. The first 20-30 minutes or so with WALL-E on Earth is genuine magic, and while most people don't really like the scenes where WALL-E and EVE are on the spaceship, I still really like it. WALL-E is my favorite example of visual storytelling. Pure artistic cinema. Great animation, great characters, almost flawless film!
Wall-E, didn't really do it for me. As an adult I enjoy animated films, kids or otherwise, but I found Wall-E boring if I'm being honest.All other areas of the film, animation, score etc are as good as can be expected, especially from Pixar, but not so much the story.I will however make the point of noting that Wall-E may well be the cutest character of all time (have a think about other contenders?).So for me only a 5 but for those of you that enjoyed it more, that's great :)
Pretty dull and boring. And heavily overrated. I don't see what's so good about it.
The loving story is one of the prime examples of film making. The story itself set in a very original and charming world. The story is telling a love story of two robots, but it knows it needs more than just that. So it tells another story and make it as emotional as possible, when you came with this whole together, all you have is just a masterpiece.The animation is probably the most beautiful I have seen in my life. The lightning looks fresh, the backgrounds use diffrent colores to present the tune correctly as possiable, and the details that were put into the envirment is at its best! The character designs is more cartoony on the humans to show what they became and the robots have so many details in them that its make them look beautiful. Its even better when they MOVE! They move in such a subtle and smooth manner that I couldn't turn my eyes from the screen! What else can I say, Pixar me amazed even more than Disney.Most of the characters don't talk yet they still present a lot of emotion. Wall E is such loyal to his fruend and wants the best for everyone. The other robot plays a big part in the movie and is such care for Wall E, even if she doesn't show it at the start. There are also the other humans that play some part in the movie, and each have thier own charm. The only character that isn't all that great is the villain, but I won't talk about it a lot becuase it will contain spoilers. The characters, even when they don't talk, has a lot of charm.This is easilly Pixar's best film! It is one of the greatest exmpales that animation is art and magic. With heartfelt and complex story, masterly build animation and characters the no one can ever forget, its one of the rare cases when I say, Pixar, no matter what you will do, don't make a sequel. This is one if the greatest animated features if all time, and it should stay the only one.
I just love this movie and I think it's the best of Pixar.
I just I just don't even know what to say man this is just beautiful. I just. This movie is just amazing it's Perfect
Do we have better than this animation about robots?!
You know that is very hard to make silent movies and the most parts of this movie is silent with perfect story line...
Sticktly I suggest you to watch this AMAZING MOVIE!
Pros:
1. The art design is fantastic with the setting and characters being amazing.
2. There is well-implemented and prophetic criticism on how humans treat the earth, as well as how humans rely too much on technology, and where both can lead.
3. The sound mixing and sound design is incredible which adds a lot of depth to the world.
4. The score and soundtrack wondrously bestow an intimate and adventurous feel to the movie.
5. The brilliant animation not only looks beautiful but it also still holds up 12 years later.
6. The pacing is amazing and it never loses speed despite the rather simple plot.Cons:
1. There are a couple plot-holes: why are the robots displaying human emotions? Were they programmed that way, and if so, why? If they weren't, how did they develop said emotions? Moreover, how did Wall-E not implode when leaving the Earth's atmosphere?
2. The comedy falls a little flat, and at times, feels unnecessary.
Pixar has consistently done the best animated films, and quite a few of them are already classics. Wall-E surpasses anything they have done. My grandkids were 8 and 6 when I took them to see it. Because it was so different from any animated feature that they had seen, and because they were quite young, I didn't know what they'd think. They loved it! I did, too. Every time I watch it since the first time in the theater, I pick up on little things I missed before. This film had such an impact that it made music from 'Hello Dolly', a popular Broadway musical and film from 40 years earlier, part of this film's 'lore'. Whenever I hear 'Put On Your Sunday Clothes', I automatically think of Wall-E -- as I'm willing to bet most people do. The inclusion of the great Louis Armstrong's recording of Edith Piaf's classic 'La Vien Rose' is also a nice touch.
Pixar always surprises. They just can't make a bad or mediocre movie. The robot couple, having a great focus on the film, thus being one of the centralities is not entirely satisfactory, but still they bring a good experience and reflection in relation to the global theme that is covered in the film. I can say that this film is among one of the best films that Pixar has ever played. A film of great emotional and significant hysteria for a wide audience. I would see this film again, that is, in the cinema or in a theater, today or tomorrow, it would be worth every penny of mine.
It's so subtle and simple in it's message and yet so deeply moving. Developing that feeling when you know you can't live without someone, opening your eyes to truly look around and realizing just how much of life are you missing, and rising up to do well beyond what needs be done for your home, for love. That's what this movie is all about, and it's all so magically portrayed. The robots depicted in this movie are perhaps more human than many of us ever will be, a must watch indeed.
Romantic mess, like a flower in the dust, like a walk in the afternoon, like all the great love in the world.
This film is not only cute, greatly animated, action packed fun, but also extremely romantic. In fact, the romance in this film is so strong that I put it amongs the best romance films of all time like Before Midnight or Midnight in Paris. Anyway, I highly recommend this if you love romance or animated movies in general.
-Acting 10/10
-Cinematography 10/10
-Enjoyment Fun 10/10
-Story 10/10
-Score/Music 10/10
-Aesthetics 10/10
This movie starts from our planet and show us , we destroyed our planet by pollution. Pollution level hiked so much that here life cannot sustain so peoples are move to space in a space craft , then a robot found a plant that indicated condition is improving . In earth a robot lives his duty is clean the plant . But when the robot tell the people that they can return the AI who control the space craft became very evil and want to stop them. Now well-e and the robot came to help them, by the time they fall in love with each other and finally help help people to return them.
I have no idea why I hadn't seen this movie until just a couple weeks ago. I had anticipated another 'one of those' Pixar movies that was just a showcase for the (admittedly effective) formula the studio is known for, but I wasn't prepared for this. Within just a few minutes I was blown away by the quality of the photorealism of the animation. This movie stands with Toy Story 4 in being one of the finest animated film in the Pixar catalog. But what really sets WALL-E apart is the depth and richness of themes in the story. The characters are well grounded and the themes they explore really exercise the mind. This is a must see for child and adult alike as there truly is something there for everyone! A
There's a line in the review, 'Longing for love until the end of the world,' that resonates. Yeah, even though the earth is covered with garbage and storms are frequent, my only wish is to be with you, hold your hand and help you accomplish what you want to do.The film tells a story of reincarnations and homecoming, and pays tribute to the so-called 'good olddays', the slow pace of both cars and horses; Or only takes Amoment; It is the origin of everything going back from the high-tech era to the tree of life.Humans and robots are interchangeable. It's wall-e that keeps humanity alive, but humans have forgotten the instinct for face-to-face contact and hand-holding.When the seed had grown into a great tree, the creatures who had been called followed the common myth home.
I bought a DVD to engage my 4 year old son, I watched with him every time - over next 2 years we saw it over 30 times sometimes full, sometimes most parts. Then I got a WALL-E miniature toy from US. It is breathtaking work about friendship, love & human existence in general. It makes us aware of the beautiful earth & our loved ones here. Watch it & you will love it.
Remember watching this when it released and my young self didn't really understand it too much. Now I'm in my 20's I'm not ashamed to say this is a great film, shows that global warming is a real thing and we need to look after our planet and ourselves
Wonderful.'WALL·E' is beautifully made, despite a relatively simple premise and no real cast to speak of. A big reason for its charm is the strong message and adorable lead characters - WALL·E (Ben Burtt) and EVE (Elissa Knight).The run time of 98 minutes flies by, with a cool end credits coming at the conclusion. Its animation is utterly superb, while I also like the mix of real-life footage (featuring Fred Willard as Shelby Forthright) into things. Jeff Garlin and Sigourney Weaver work well in their minor roles.Not at the top of my personal Disney animated productions, but just about inside the top ten up until this point. Lovely film.
I'm not kidding when I say this is one of the greatest films I've ever seen. The first 45 minutes have no dialogue, its quite impressive. Show your kids this, not Minions.
A must watch, will watch again, and definitely recommend for everyone, all ages.The first 30 minutes or so of this movie are pure and perfect magic. They establish the world, Wall-E, the human race with next to no dialogue.Wall-E and Eve meeting is wonderfully trip of social anxiety in different personalities and a great metaphor for living together while being different.Once on the axiom, the entire movie shifts seemlessly, and it is one heavy metaphor after the next about America and the human race without it once being the focus of the story.If you ever needed a movie that 'does' and not 'says', this is your example, it's how world building should be done.While I think I could literally talk about this movie for hours, I don't want to spoil anything else by talking about it here other than this is a near perfect movie to me.Watch, enjoy, be well.
I have to wonder who the intended audience for Wall-E is supposed to be. The setting is post-apocalyptic dystopian--along the lines of Blade Runner. The surviving humans all look like the Pillsbury doughboy and have slow mental processes, as though they have been gorging on too many doughnuts and desperately need to get the oxygen flowing through their bloodsteam. (Maybe a brisk walk after a cup of black coffee?) To be honest, this depiction verges on fat-shaming (note: I am thin), although some might view it as a cautionary tale: if you have a desk job and never go out for exercise and eat too much processed food, then your body will end up looking like that of the Pillsbury Doughboy.Yet the Robo-romance between a scrappy trash compactor and a robot seems to be aiming for the youngsters in the audience. As does the completely corny ending. The 'artful' allusions to 2001: A Space Odyssey (a bona fide masterpiece) do not help in the least.Wall-E is an extremely bizarre creation, and I am truly baffled by the high ratings and praise being lavished upon it.
The character of Wall-E shows a lot of expression with a limited set of facial movements and sounds. His encounter with Eva and the Axiom are revealed gradually which shows us the dismal state of humanity in the far future. It is very visually thrilling and the inclusion of live action elements really fitted well.
This movie, i've been 3 times in theaters to see it. The emotion are everywhere. The love. Details and an astonishing sound design. Make that movie a classic.
Watching now with a more adult way this movie still enchants me and i cannot believe the level of detail, even i didn't in my multiple viewing. A distopia but must seen how it's end.
The beginning is very special and the second part is enjoyable on it's on way.
There is no age to watch one of the best movie out there. It ages a little technically but all the rest will led the movie to became watcheable even in 30 years. Hope we didn't reach that level of pollution, but in term of invasive adds and live behind the screen, we are damn on it, especially dating !
Awesome Deep Story, Simply Best Childhood for all. just watch its mind blowing film
I usually like watching movies but this movie is so boring. I didn't like watching it at all
Excellent movie without any humans and easy to watch for all type of people
What a great movie I'm not usually one for animation films but this one I loved. This really got me in the feels. Loved it.
This movie is so cute and so sad. It makes me cry every time I watch it and makes you think about the world!!
I understand how people absolutely adore this movie and how it can be their favorite Pixar movie. I personally think it's a bit slow and bland, and the 'villain' is very much meh.
What an incredibly touching movie. I find it impossible and incredulous, but I love the premise, and the eventual outcome. Good over evil, and good prevails. I love the characters, and I think 'Wall-E' is a charming and wonderful young man. It doesn't matter at this point if he is over 700 years old. He makes us all feel like we can attempt and succeed at anything. The changing of his 'treads' and the collection of aesthetics are the most endearing things about him. I know that none of the 'lighter fluid' would still be in anything 700 years old, but it serves to connect him to us.
Fast forward 700 years, Wall-E is the only robot left working, all the other's have broken down, and he is sentient.
One day a spaceship comes and drops off another robot and Wall-E is infatuated with her, which she doesn't seem to let bother her after a while. They become friends and when she suddenly shuts down Wall-E is heart broken. The spaceship returns for her and Wall-E finds himself on a journey that will have consequences far beyond what one little robot could imagine.
A brilliant movie, in my humble opinion.
This movie is great and the characters were memorable and very kind. My only problem of the film is auto (villain) of what he have done to wall-e and that really bothered me. But it still the best pixar movie and it really needs a sequel. I hope the sequel will be release in 2022
Such a sad film but one of the best animated films it's soooo good
This movie is great for little kids but for teens and above it gets boring real fast
It's awesome to see a animated movie talking about such a real problem as the contamination is and how the technology it's kind of separating from our true personalities, it's way too much to handle on a 'kids' movie and not only that, this was released in 2008, we're in 2020 and as far as I know, nothing like that has happened in such a quality form. Visual art and philosophy, no less.
I just returned from an advanced benefit screening of WALL*E, and I want to be careful not to spill too much regarding the movie. I had the added privilege of watching the film at Pixar, which in and of itself, was amazing.This picture is not a cartoon; it is a film. In fact, it even has the LOOK of film. One of my complaints of more recent 3-D/CG animated films (not from Pixar) is that they all seem to look the same... clean lines, crisp colors, and very 'virtual', for lack of a better term. WALL*E transcends the typical look of CG animation, and has a true to life 'grit.' The creators at Pixar are true artists, and are indeed masters of their craft. Not only are they masters of the technology, they are masters of telling a story. WALL*E is no exception.The best way to describe the film is as a science fiction, comedy, dramatic love story. WALL*E, as a character, has dimension, personality, and heart... pretty impressive given that he is essentially a trash compactor. It is true that there is little dialogue in this feature, but I personally did not feel it detracted from the story at all.WALL*E is very much a different Pixar film from it's previous features. I will be curious to see how it is received by others, but in my opinion, I think Pixar has stayed true to itself, demonstrating a commitment to telling great stories and pushing the edge of technology to leave your jaw dropping! My most sincere compliments to Andrew Stanton, Jim Morris, John Lasseter, Ben Burtt, and all the creative forces at Pixar. Can't wait to see what the future brings...
Wall-e came in dizzyingly high time of Pixar excellence, when Pixar was churning out one exquisite hit after another.. Just how many animation studios can boast of a streak like Ratatouille, Up, Wall-E, Toy story 3 etc...This movie gives you taste of both extremes, total dialogue less portions like the great era of early 1900s films and then the sudden fun filled slight action packed, dialogue strewn scenes..A true master piece, which could be termed as a landmark in animated feature length films. It very loyally mentions and proudly shows inspiration from science fiction movies of yesteryear like 2001 space odyssey, starwars and star trek etc...If you want to see Pixar at its creative best... Then Wall-E is the answer....
Wall-E is life programmed baby and we can see him learning lot of thing in movie. and the loving part is he get back humans to earth.
I would say WALL-E is my 'Love at first sight'. He made me smile the whole movie.
Very enjoyable. Most important and interesting aspect of the movie is the romance between Eve and Wall-E. The other part about saving the planet and corporate issues have been played in many other movies.
First of all, it's a good film. But it's one of those that leads you to believe it's deeper and more original than it actually is.
A not so original message behind a generic and predictable love story does not justice to the high esteem the public has for this movie.It's an animated familiar movie, and has undoubtedly a fresh aura and impactful visuals and technical quality. But in a general viewing, the plot background and the actual development of the story fall short, appealing to generic elements that you can see in every animated/familiar movie.As I didn't see anything really great about this movie, at the end of the day it's a good movie, but vastly overrated.
You could say it's an animated film, a science fiction film, an environmental education film, a romance film, even a disaster film. Detail and appeal of the film. I love this stupid, dirty Wally. He's a romantic guy. Even if there is no thrill of crossing the Milky Way, even if there is no vigorous rescue of the earth, is it not the most romantic thing to love the world?
I just returned from an advanced benefit screening of WALL*E, and I want to be careful not to spill too much regarding the movie. I had the added privilege of watching the film at Pixar, which in and of itself, was amazing.This picture is not a cartoon; it is a film. In fact, it even has the LOOK of film. One of my complaints of more recent 3-D/CG animated films (not from Pixar) is that they all seem to look the same... clean lines, crisp colors, and very 'virtual', for lack of a better term. WALL*E transcends the typical look of CG animation, and has a true to life 'grit.' The creators at Pixar are true artists, and are indeed masters of their craft. Not only are they masters of the technology, they are masters of telling a story. WALL*E is no exception.The best way to describe the film is as a science fiction, comedy, dramatic love story. WALL*E, as a character, has dimension, personality, and heart... pretty impressive given that he is essentially a trash compactor. It is true that there is little dialogue in this feature, but I personally did not feel it detracted from the story at all.WALL*E is very much a different Pixar film from it's previous features. I will be curious to see how it is received by others, but in my opinion, I think Pixar has stayed true to itself, demonstrating a commitment to telling great stories and pushing the edge of technology to leave your jaw dropping! My most sincere compliments to Andrew Stanton, Jim Morris, John Lasseter, Ben Burtt, and all the creative forces at Pixar. Can't wait to see what the future brings...
The language used in this movie is very few, but it doesn't affect the content of the story at all. On the contrary, it adds a lot of humor.I like Wally's simple insistence that he still works hard every day according to his simple garbage disposal procedure after the earth is abandoned. However, he sometimes feels lonely and yearns for his love in the love video left by mankind. Until one day EVA appeared, Wally fell in love with her, although she is very fierce, a gun can blow up a ship, but Wally is still desperate in love with her. He began to pursue his love, from the earth to outer space, he pursued very hard, he has left his life track far away, he has only one purpose is to be with EVA, this is his insistence on love. Finally, he exchanged his life for the chance of people returning to the earth in the most critical moment. He still insisted, because he thought it was right to do so, which was touching.Our life is also for some things and adhere to, but maybe we did not adhere to the last, but this process is beautiful, always worth our treasure. What a happy ending it is that his persistence has saved everyone and completed himself. Although the earth they returned to is still a mess, as long as there is hope and everyone's efforts and persistence, is the bright future far away from us?The film let me learn Wally's innocence, kindness and persistence: EVA's alertness, agility, courage and ability. The themes expressed by the two robots are not only simple joy, but also love, real love, pure love, and love without any impurities. This film also shows a possibility of the future development of the earth in the course of interesting plots, which allows 'sensible' adults to reflect on everything in front of them, to play a warning role in the situation of no publicity and no pressure. At the same time, the end lets people out of despair and feel the optimistic attitude that everything is not too late.
This film is magical, and the first half is some of the best of Pixar. This is one of my favourite films released by Disney and will stay that way for ever
Taking inspiration from the movie, our enemy will always be ourselves, the self who turns a blind eye to everything and only wants to have fun for a while. If you are not satisfied with all this, change it. Don't complain about this era. In this era, many talented people have the opportunity, have the opportunity to control their own destiny. It's up to you to decide.
Cartoon about the value of the family done very well very nice and entertaining.
The action was great the characters were brave and strong and the plot was pretty good.
This is one of the best animated films of all time.Not only is it probably gonna end up being the best Pixar movie, but it is easily in my top 5 animated movies ever. Like Toy Story, you just cannot beat the vibe of this film. You are never not entertained during this. I watched this like 30 times as a kid, so on top of it being incredible, it was also nostalgic. It's really funny, a great story, great villain, great music, great everything. So far this is my favorite Pixar film, and I don't know if it's gonna change anytime soon.
The Incredibles is one of the best animated family movie. It has a very interesting plot and loving characters. Disney Pixar has done once again what they are known for- amazing animation. Overall this movie is very entertaining to watch.
A very good entertainer to watch with family and kids.
This was my favorite movie as a kid and it still holds up.
The Incredibles is a Pixar superhero film, I think this film is really well written and everything is laid out well. But I think the characters lack, I found Elastigirl and Syndrome annoying in this film. I think the script for Elastigirl could've been better written because she had a lot of potential as a character, same thing with Syndrome I found Syndrome annoying but not in a villainy way.Overall, 7/10.
The Incredibles is so incredible because it's got incredible characters, incredible animation, incredible music, an incredible story, and incredible talents. In this incredibly super awesome story, superhero Mr. Incredible is busy fighting crime and the forces of evil on a daily basis with his super strength. He is also friends with super cool Frozone , who can save the day by shooting ice and snow from his hands, and his girlfriend Elastigirl, who can stretch out her limbs and body to rescue civilians. One day, after saving a runaway train, Mr. Incredible gets married with Elastigirl and everything is bright. Or so they thought. On that same day, Mr. Incredible had saved a man who apparently did not want to be saved, and was sued. But five days later, he and other superheroes were sued for their good deeds and are forced to retire, go into hiding, and take desk jobs. 15 years later, Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl are now living in suburbia with their three kids, teenage Violet (who can turn herself invisible and create force shields) young Dash (who can run at hyper speeds) and little Jack-Jack (who seems to have no powers at all). Even though he loves his family, Mr. Incredible has been growing more and more depressed at his mandate lifestyle and white collar job. One day, he discovers a mysterious communication from a woman named Mirage who takes him to the island of Nomanisan, where she takes him to fight a giant robot called the Omnidroid. When he successfully does so and gets a new suit from his friend, fashion designer Edna Mode, Mr. Incredible is off on a new mission. But suddenly he discovers that Mirage is working for Buddy Pine, a disaffected number one fan who was rejected by Mr. Incredible as sidekick Incrediboy. Buddy's plan to take over the world is kill all superheroes and prove to be a hero, rendering the difference meaningless. Joined by his family, Mr. Incredible must fight Buddy to save the day with Mrs. Incredible, Incredigirl, the new Incrediboy, and Jack-Jack to save Municiberg from mass destruction. The Incredibles is very awesome, because it's about family and loyalty, and cooperation and working together as a team. Incredible work, Pixar!
Pixar has made an animated movie on all the different aspects that we see and admire in our life - there's Coco on culture, Soul on life and death, Finding Nemo on marine life, Ratatouille on food and Cars on, well, cars. But the one Pixar movie that completely stands out for me is the one made on the superheroes. I have watched The Incredibles about like, twenty times as far as I can remember (almost always in Hindi), I think I have lost count. And yet it interests me the same way as it did the first time. It's clearly because of all the hard work that went into making this movie.The first time I had heard about The Incredibles, it was when it had a Happy Meal toy ad. I used to hate Violet and like Dash because of how that ad used to show her as someone who bosses him around. The reason why it did so was because it reminded me so much of my family, minus Jack Jack. The father, the mother, the elder sister and the younger brother. The entire theme of this movie is that this is supposed to be a family of superheroes. They are also people just like us, living their life in peace and quiet. It is also visible since they easily blended in with the normal people the moment they got outlawed. This clearly showed that the way we always treat them to be either gods or demons, they are more than just that.Another great aspect about this movie is the animation. It is the reason why I liked to watch this movie over and over again. Now of course all American animated movies have great animations, but this is something completely different. It looks and feels more like a videogame. As a kid I used to often play with my Wii remote when Bob broke into Syndrome's lab, pretending it's a game and I'm controlling him. The textures, the way Omnibot moves around, the fight scenes, everything gives a very videogame-like feel to it, something similar to the PS4 Spider-Man or Batman Arkham.And finally what makes this movie so great is the story and the character development. What made the Parrs so likeable? Because each of those characters are lousy, incompetant and just overall bored of their lives in the beginning of the movie. They have everything they need to make their lives fun, but they have no right to use them. So finally when they slowly get to use those powers, they are getting more excited about it and quickly adapt to the situations. In the aftermath of their fight they have made their lives better because now they are a lot more positive about their future.The Incredibles, in my opinion, is a timeless classic. Everyone should definitely see this once in their life. It's one of the movies that absolutely defines what Disney-Pixar is. I'm really glad this movie got all the fame it deserved, and probably a lot more is to come in the future (games, cameos, spinoffs, even more sequels) since I just can't have enough of this.
Rating: 8.0Not much to say it delivers on most aspects, and had a slightly dark undertone for a portion of it. Looks good, and is a lot of fun.
The story is amazing and well written. The movie is very funny and doesn't feel forced. It has excellent animation even to this day. One of the best movies I've ever seen.
The Incredibles is another example of a superhero movie with no superhero, no comics behind it. And, being a cartoon in computer graphics, it at the same time is closer to the aura of this type of work, as there is total freedom of the director and screenwriter Brad Bird to work on his narrative as well as allowing criticism and comments - in addition to several winks - to the works that formed the ribbon's amalgam. And what works would these be? Now, for comic book readers, this identification is immediate and the two direct references that can be made are with Watchmen, Alan Moore's seminal graphic novel, from 1986, and with the stories of the Fantastic Four, a group created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, in 1961.From Watchmen, Brad Bird really took the essence of The Incredibles. The world he presents us with is a world that once had superheroes, but that its actions were limited and, finally, prohibited, after lawsuits seeking damages were brought against the heroes, due to the damage caused to people and cities. Now, heroes live hidden under their secret identities until the emergence of a new supervillain forces them out of retirement. Of course, Watchmen's weight is removed almost completely, but Bird doesn't try to do something silly, simplistic. After all, we're talking about Pixar at its imaginative peak, aren't we?To begin with, the catalytic event of the lawsuits against the heroes, which is shown to us in a flashback that would later be repeated in the incomparable 'Up', is nothing short of Mr. Incredible (voice of Craig T. Nelson) preventing a man to commit suicide. Brad Bird couldn't have chosen a heavier topic than that, although he didn't explore much - of course! - does not fail to give the story a little somber tone, even if, afterwards, it is put in the background. The same goes for the sensational moment when Edna E. Mode (voice of Brad Bird, oddly enough!) Explains why she did not create a new uniform with a cover for Mr. Incredible, another direct reference to Watchmen and the sad end of poor Dollar Bill.Mr. Incredible desperation to go back to being 'super' leads him to blindly embrace a mysterious job offer that, of course, is manipulated by the super-villain I mentioned, the Syndrome (Jason Lee), who has a connection with his past. The narrative structure created by Bird does not save minutes explaining the heroes' past, the problems caused by the destruction, the family's civil life and also Lucius Best, ex-Frozone (Samuel L. Jackson), Bob Parr's best friend. There are 40 minutes of pure brilliance and originality of the script, which establishes the universe and catapults the action that is then confined to the island of Syndrome before returning to the city again.The rhythm established by the script and the dynamic editing by Bird and Stephen Schaffer goes on an impressive crescendo until the arrival of the whole family to that island, a moment that marks a certain repetition of the actions already seen with Mr. Incredible a few times. Even though this issue is raised, however, Bird insists on extending the adventure and bringing the threat of the lunatic super-villain to the big city, which allows Frozone and his freezing power to enter the narrative again. This is the moment when the remnants of weight and sobriety at the beginning of history are completely lost, making way for a gigantic and generic struggle of our heroes against the mechanical monster of Syndrome.The themes begin to repeat themselves, the action becomes pasteurized and we enter dangerously in the swampy terrain of 'I have seen this before'. However, Bird manages to keep the attention alight by engaging more strongly in jokes and exaggerated action, shaped to demonstrate all the possibilities of computer graphics. The best jokes come from the helplessness of heroes when they are away from their tight-fitting suits, or acting humanly in the shoes of superheroes. Enter these cases the scene of Bob closing the door of his old car with the strength and fury of Mr. Incredible and even the almost traumatic moment when the Elastic Woman looks at the size of her ass before leaving for the salvation of her husband. With that, he takes the viewer's attention away from the clock and puts us back in the middle of the narrative.One of the first things that stands out in The Incredibles is the stylized look of the humans seen in the film: without wanting to create a 'real' appearance for the characters (a very intelligent attitude, by the way), director Brad Bird bets in figures that refer to traditional animation, playing with different shapes of head, nose, ear, and so on. On the other hand, the extreme care with animation is reflected not only in the impressive facial expressions of the characters, but also in their movements, which oscillate between the obvious (sighs, crossed arms and grandiose gestures) and the subtle (a drumming on the steering wheel). Car, a slight nod, a lock of hair that is pushed behind the ear, and so on). In this way, the virtual cast of The Incredibles comes to life unquestionably, even if they are caricatures on the outside.Responsible for the thrilling The Iron Giant (who failed unfairly at the box office), Bird proves his talent by conducting the narrative impeccably, alternating moments of introspection of the characters with others in which the action takes over the screen. And what an action! Packed by Michael Giacchino's great soundtrack (full of clear references to the James Bond series), these sequences are breathtaking, becoming even more effective thanks to the direction of Bird, who demonstrates a praiseworthy preciosity in the composition of plans (with brilliant frames and camera movements) and precise cuts.Avoiding the episodic tone that compromised the impact of Finding Nemo a little, the filmmaker never allows his story to lose its fluidity - and his enchantment with the potential of computer animation is obvious when we observe the magnitude of the scenarios presented along the plot (the race of Dash through a forest is impressive) and the elegance in the use of lights, colors and shadows. In addition, Bird pays a beautiful tribute to the genre itself by including the caricatures of two animators who were part of Walt Disney's original team: Ollie Johnston and Frank Thomas, who appear at the conclusion of the film and who lent their voices to their digital versions.However, just like in the recent Polar Express, the technical quality of The Incredibles would mean nothing if we didn't care about their characters. Fortunately, the script (written by Bird himself) is skillful in making the Parr family important to the viewer, who identifies with the drama experienced by its members - after all, those who never wished for a slightly more 'formidable' existence than normal? What's more, how can one stop being moved by Helen's efforts to defend her children, who are understandably frightened by the threatening circumstances they are facing? It is not for nothing that one of the great pleasures of watching The Incredibles lies in the opportunity to witness the teamwork of the Incredible family, which always combines their powers in an inventive ... and fun way.This is perhaps one of Pixar's most elaborate scripts in relation to storytelling. It is a story with several facets, which gives due attention to each of its elements so that nothing passes without being explored. The prelude, which shows superheroes at the height of their popularity, provides some of the best-made scenes in history related to what life in a real city would be like with their presence.Nowadays, the family's life is permeated by the exhausting routine, offering a realistic and almost depressive analysis of how many people give up on their dreams in order to follow a common life. You realize the dissatisfaction and unwillingness in Bob who, despite loving his family, never managed to get over his longing for his glory days. The fact that Helen is better resolved with this is also a stereotyped portrait of society, which prints that the woman has a predetermined role, hardly questioning him about anything. Children themselves are allegories for some of the biggest problems in the early stages of life. Dash ready at school abusing her super speed, Violet is a shy and closed girl, something that, in addition to combining with her super powers, refers to the fact that she has to hide daily and Jack-Jack is an attempt to show how parents never they understand their children completely, even though they have been children before.The Syndrome, in turn, is one of the best villains of superhero films, the genre that most needs these, but that has so few positive examples. His plan is crazy, but it has a foundation, based on his frustration with heroes in the past, he decides to give everyone a chance to become a superhero, by sharing his advanced technology.Infinitely more adult than other Pixar films, The Incredibles not only give rise to important discussions about the society in which we live ('Why do they always find new ways to celebrate mediocrity? ', Asks Bob Parr), but also not is intimidated by creating really dangerous villains (at one point, Helen makes the following warning to her children: 'They will not be cool just because you are children. If given the opportunity, they will kill you. Do not give them this opportunity. ') . This is not to say, of course, that the feature is not funny enough to amuse the little ones, who are likely to fall in love with baby Jack-Jack and laugh at the eccentric Edna Mode, who is voiced by Bird himself and is an obvious caricature. From the legendary costume designer Edith Head.With all the positive elements, the lengthening of the film and the repetition of situations become less relevant aspects in this work by Pixar, which works elements so well established in the universe of comics and adds several layers of pure fun.
I rewatched The Incredibles after having seen the sequel not long ago. There's a world of difference. I'd forgotten how sharp, original and exciting the first movie was. The music is fantastic. The graphics hold up extremely well with some gorgeous views and locations, considering it's animated and 17 years old. It's hilarious and entertaining for both kids and adults.The Incredibles mocks and pays homage to the spy and superhero movie genres at the same time. And it succeeds incredibly well (that pun was unintentional, but I'll take it). Like many great movies of this kind, it arguably outdoes practically all the films it references. It's better than any Bond movie, with more exotic locations, more ridiculous plans for world domination, more seductive, mysterious and fiesty women, a more crazed but interesting villain and so on. It also surpasses every superhero movie made before it (Nolan's untouchable Batman trilogy came later).One of the standout aspects is the cinematography, or whatever you call it since the film is animated. The way the camera moves around. But not just that, the way everything is planned out, presumably using storyboards, especially the action sequences. It's very clear what's happening. We don't get lazy, choppy editing. The events themselves are exciting and the camera is smoothly, efficiently placed in the best place to let us follow the action and experience the emotions of the characters.For instance, the camera often gently sails along with moving vehicles and smoothly shifts it's focus. Many shots hold for several seconds so we can get our bearings. But brief shots also show us events from different angles - when a car tips over, what do they see inside? When there are cuts, they're done so that we can tell where we're cutting to. An explosion which starts in one shot can be seen in the next shot - we instantly know where we are.Aside from how they're 'filmed', the set pieces are really creative and effective. Dash sprinting through the jungle and later on water is exhilarating. Violet's force field bubbles look awesome as enemies shoot away, unable to break through. Again we see this from both the inside and outside. Elastigirl uses her power in all kinds of creative ways - as a parachute, to propel herself, to trick people, to reach things, etc. She even turns herself into a boat. Mr. Incredible is perhaps less subtle but it's fun to see him finally let off all his steam. And Frozone, although only a minor character, has some cool techniques as well.The score by Michael Giacchino is his best, in my opinion (everything I write is my opinion, for future reference). He's done good work on other Pixar films like Up and Inside Out, but even in those films I think the main highlight is the main theme with the lest of the music less interesting. His work on Rogue One was awful. Completely dull. No interesting new themes and half-hearted references to Williams' amazing work. But The Incredibles' score is great. Full of James Bond (John Barry) or Bernard Hermann style motifs building the tension. And lots of great jazzy and blasting brass parts. Most of it is quite memorable. I don't know why his other work doesn't seem to even come close.The themes are very interesting and mature. If everyone's special, then no-one is. Is it fair if superheroes are just born with powers? Obviously, it's also about honing those skills and using them for good. And not all powers are equally obvious. But people shouldn't be punished for their talents. It's a bit like the Vonnegut short story Harrison Bergeron.This resonates strongly with me. I was average at many things, but good at maths, dancing and a few other things. Many kids resent you for being talented. At school, I received relatively little attention or encouragement for my intelligence, especially in maths. It was seen more as an affront to others. Why couldn't I be mediocre? Did I think I was better than them? No, but that's what they assumed. I was called a show off. I was expected to keep my abilities to myself. Many adults still have such attitudes.The drama is serious and mature at many points. Helen Parr wonders if her husband might be cheating on her, or getting into trouble. Cheating seems unlikely since he's flirting with her more - he pinches her butt and then she does the same back to him from across the room.It's easy to slide into cliche at this point with things taken out of context and artificial drama developing. But The Incredibles keeps it intelligent and realistic. I completely understand both Bob's and Helen's side of things. He's bored, wants excitement, wants to save people and doesn't want Helen to stress. She kind of wants those things as well but has resigned herself to the safety and modesty of being a mother and housewife. Those days are gone. But when necessary, she holds no punches. All the character motivations are understandable. There are no idiots or unnecessary miscommunication.There are also dark moments. Bob thinks his family is dead. And the bad guys are certainly willing to kill women, kids and civilians in general. Bob's willing to threaten a woman's life when he thinks everything has been taken from him, but he's faking it ultimately. The cockiness of Syndrome is infuriating, but he gets what's coming to him.It's ironic that one of the best spy, superhero, thrillers of all time is a Pixar movie. They really were at the top of their game and still mostly make great movies. But this one really was special. It's a masterclass in how to film action. And it looks incredible. It's not just about how many pixels but how cool your designs, colour palettes, camera angles and motions and other things are. There's plenty of food for thought in this movie, more than most espionage thrillers and family dramas I've ever seen.
The Incredibles lives up to its title, it is well paced, funny, entertaining and full of action. The acting is great and the animation is beautiful, especially for 2004. The music's uplifting and the plot is unpredictable and creative whilst still being simple enough for anyone to follow.Story wise it starts off typically but quickly gets interesting, the Parr family (The Incredibles) are extremely likeable and act like a real family instead of being a caricature or perfectly behaved, this gives each individual family member a bit of personality because they're not all the same and don't do things the same way, they each are actually individuals. The film's villains were good too, especially Syndrome who has an unusual motive as well as mannerisms. All in all a near perfect film that I've watched too many times.10/10: Quite possibly my favourite animated film of all time.
But probably because this movie is my childhood, and I'm still a child, but I grew up on this movie when I was little, so it gets 10 force fields out of 10.
I never got around to watching this when it came out but had heard great things about it so had high expectations going into it 17 years later. I don't know if it's just because animated movies have gotten more ambitious in the intervening years but it just wasn't as good as I expected. It felt a little slow to get going and the story was pretty predictable and straightforward after the first 10 mins. It also wasn't much of a spectacle and although it was it was an enjoyable film in a laid back Sunday afternoon kind of way it wasn't special.
I worked at a theater owned by Disney during the first run of this film. I'll never forget how unbelievably silly it was to watch the movie three or four or five more times. Creative work always gets me started, if you know what I mean.
Everyone loves the Incredible so why such a low rating? So many Pixar films seem to have really quite low ratings compared to their reputation as being brilliant.I was never one for Superhero films as a wee lad but and thus hadn't seen this many times at all, but like a Bug's Life and Monsters, Inc it is really beginning to grow on me, a solid nine, 9.5 if that were possible, which it should be.
The animation of course is awesome but there are technical issues with this production. I've watched the movie several hundred times because of the kids, and while I still enjoy the movie, the problems with the script make it an imperfect movie. I am glad that it is good for the kids and adults alike.
Toys, bugs, monsters, fish. These are the great stories Pixar has told. This one is like a comic book, but it shows family, working together and saving the day. The Incredibles is no exception. In this story, the famous superhero Mr. Incredible, is always saving the day by using his superhuman strength to protect Municiberg from the dark forces of evil, with his super-stretchy wife Elastigirl and his best pal, the literally super cool Frozone, who can shoot ice and snow from his hands. But one tragic day, superheroes are not allowed to use their powers in public, because they cause too much damage to the city. The government sues and bans superheroes and forces them to retirement and puts them in the Superhero Relocation Program, which superheroes hide the powers and are deemed illegal, and have to fit in with society. 15 years later, Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl now have settled in society. They now have three kids, a daughter named Violet, who can turn invisible and project force fields, and two sons, the oldest son is a hyperactive 10 year old boy, named Dash and the youngest is a baby named Jack-Jack. Though he loves his family, Mr. Incredible has become depressed and lonely with not being able to save the day and hates working as an insurance adjuster. One day, he is called in to action by a mysterious communication, which sends him to a remote island. A spy named Mirage has given him a top secret mission to fight a savage robot called the Omnidroid. Mr. Incredible successfully defeats the robot and feels like a new man. He even has new costumes for his family, designed by his old friend, Edna Mode. During his next assignment, Mr. Incredible discovers Mirage is working for Buddy Pine, a disaffected number one fan of Mr. Incredible, whom he had rejected as a sidekick, Incrediboy. He has adopted the supervillain alias 'Syndrome'. He is intending to send his Omnidroid killing machine to Municiberg to destroy all superheroes and rule the world. And so it is up to the Incredibles to save the city and work together as a family. The Incredibles, as the name implies, is very incredible, with jazzy music from Michael Giacchino, amazing direction from Brad Bird, the voice of Edna Mode, and the story is done brilliantly by Brad. Good luck saving the world, Incredibles!
One of the first animted movies I remember watching as a kid. It was delightful and full of excitement. Now Im rewatching it again and it's just like how I remembered.Solid story with good atmosphere and writing. There characters were good most of them developing throughout the movie. The Incredibles consisted of Mr. Incredible a father who misses the 'old days'. Elastigirl a mother who wants to start a new life. And their two kids Violet and Dash who are writen well. The visuals were good, the designs of the robot, ships etc, they were good but the shading was a bit off. And the music was very good consising mainly of trumpets with likable voice actingOverall an enjoyable film.Memorable: No Rewatchable: Maybe..
And I use ''Superhero'' loosely because this film goes for a more James Bond, spy kind of tone, and it fits really well! It also leads to a pretty explicit animated film with the amount of innuendos, death and darkness found here. The characters here have great chemistry (when they're not fighting or yelling), and Syndrome is by far the best villain in Pixar history! It loses points for the animation. This movie... doesn't look that great. It looks fine, don't get me wrong, but everything just looks kinda bland and plastic-ish, especially compared to other Pixar movies like Monsters Inc. or Toy Story 2. But I'm not going to complain much because everything else about this movie is just SO great!
This movie doesn't appeal to me the way it does for so many. I can agree that it is an excellent story with amazing characters and visuals. I just didn't personally care that much about it. I can't really say why, it's just my preference. For me, the best part is Holly Hunter as Elastigirl. You would think that I might like the sequel since she's the star of that one, but I like #2 even less. Wish I could be more helpful, but I guess the fact that a movie is really good doesn't mean everyone will enjoy it.
Good movie
Idk whY people like this movie so mUch?
This movie is Good but not masterpiece or something
Great characters, action, humor, villian, Edna Mode, everything is really good.
17 years after incredibles was released, it continues to be a compelling, entertaining, funny, smart, ambitious, original, mature and just simply enjoyable movie. The dialogue is exceptional and the animation holds up surprisingly well. The characters are well written and very fleshed out. It is an animated film about superheroes and yet the chatacters and world feel so real.It is my favourite pixar film and probably always will be. If you haven't seen this masterpiece yet, stop reading this review and go watch it right now. Infact, even if you've seen it before, just watch it right now. It is that freaking good.
An amazing family film and also one of the best superhero films of all time.
Action is amazing, especially in the final act with such a range of powers all used brilliantly.
And do I need to say anything about the animation? Pixar just knocks it out of the park every time.
The Incredibles is just full of personality and charm, making it endlessly rewatchable.Also we need a Frozone solo movie.
Nothing really makes me say wow about the incredibles. Felt like typical disney. Overated.
First of all, everything technically is more or less perfect. From the brilliantly stylised animation, character design, settings and background design and animation effects that were ground-breaking for the art form, to quite possibly my favourite score of all time from Michael Giacchino that I've been humming more or less constantly since I watched it, to the creative and extremely enjoyable action that uses all of the family's powers to their advantage, every technical aspect is just phenomenal. The voice acting is energetic, the characters are really iconic and their interactions are the main driving force of the film. I love the fact that, underneath the superhero aspect of their lives, this is just a normal family with normal interactions, which grounds the characters in a sense of reality and makes them a lot more enjoyable to watch, particularly in the final act. Brad Bird is pretty much a master at writing dialogue that appeals to both kids and adults, and the amount of layers that some of the dialogue has makes me shocked that a film like this was even made. There are a lot of darker undertones, such as Helen thinking that Bob is cheating on her, to Bob feeling like his life no longer has any meaning to it. It again makes the characters so much more enjoyable to watch and makes the story so much more layered. The pacing is pretty much pitch perfect, and Syndrome is one of the best villains of all time - he's charismatic, funny and just a blast to see on screen. Also, the film is just so funny. So many iconic lines (And when everyone's super no one will be) (Where is my supersuit?), (Edna Mode in general) and so many great jokes (Coincidence? I think NOT!), and it makes the film ridiculously fun from start to finish. It's hard to choose a favourite element, but I think I'll go for the fact that every main character has a well developed arc, with Bob learning to reconnect with his family, particularly Helen, and Helen becoming a more motherly figure over her kids. Violet becomes more confident and Dash becomes more mature and appreciates his family more by the end of the film.But more importantly, this has had a big impact on how I view animation. Even before I was really into film, my first big obsession was with animation. Not that I was any good at actually making animations, but I just found the way that animation was created really interesting, and my favourite animation studio was always and is still Pixar. I wouldn't say The Incredibles was one I fully appreciated until a bit after this phase, but it was one I always really enjoyed as a kid. It's grown on me gradually over the years to the point where it is now amongst my favourites of my favourites of all time. This film is one of the key reasons why I love animation so much, and in a way, it lead to my appreciation of superhero movies aswell. Overall, this is one of my favourites of all time for all of the reasons that I've listed above and more, and if you haven't already watched this, or if it's been a while since you've seen it, I implore that you check it out.
Ons of the best (not only animations) movies that the whole family will love! Best movie for family night!
The Incredibles is a 2004 American computer-animated superhero film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. Written and directed by Brad Bird, it stars the voices of Craig T. Nelson, Holly Hunter, Sarah Vowell, Spencer Fox, Jason Lee, Samuel L. Jackson, and Elizabeth Peña. Set in an alternate version of the 1960s, the film follows the Parrs, a family of superheroes who hide their powers in accordance with a government mandate, and attempt to live a quiet suburban life. Mr. Incredible's desire to help people draws the entire family into a confrontation with a vengeful fan-turned-foe.Brad Bird, who was Pixar's first outside director, developed the film as an extension of the 1960s comic books and spy films from his boyhood and personal family life. He pitched the film to Pixar after Warner Bros.' box office disappointment of his first feature, The Iron Giant (1999), and carried over much of its staff to develop The Incredibles. The animation team was tasked with animating an all-human cast, which required creating new technology to animate detailed human anatomy, clothing and realistic skin and hair. Michael Giacchino composed the film's orchestral score.
This review contains spoilers.The Incredibles is an animated superhero movie that premiered in 2004. The movie is directed by Brad Bird, produced by John Walker, written by Brad Bird, and stars Craig T. Nelson, and Holly Hunter. The movie is about a superhero family that must hide their identities after public opinion turns against the superheroes.The Incredibles is a great movie that showcases how well character and story can be blended in an animation. There are many things that this movie does well and it blends incredibly well. The movie blends its story, action, and character development all in one great package. The movie mainly follows Bob Parr aliasing as Mr. Incredible played by Craig T. Nelson. This character is the central focus from the audience. He is a great character for the audience to follow and we see how he wants to make superheroes more popular again.The visuals in this movie are incredible. They make for an awesome experience if the audience is only watching the movie for the visuals alone. The family's superpowers are in great display here and it is well directed and produced. The production quality is top-notch in this movie and it is true of Pixar movies in general.The movie is incredibly enjoyable. The only downsides to the movie is that for fans of superheroes, there is not much new in this story. The movie features the cliches of the superhero genre. The movie almost plays it straight with how superheroes have to deal with society. The movie does not offer any deconstruction and offers a simple story to the movie. This is fine for any audience that does not want anything difficult to follow.I would recommend 'The Incredibles'.Grade: A
I liked that this is one more superhero movie next to many existing ones. Best is the graphics, worst is the (lack of) reality. Somewhere in between are actors, emotions, and story. Not as good graphics as in Shrek or Maleficent, but good for a cartoon or for kids. Good presence of technology, and superpowers (abilities). Inspirational to play similar or same video games. If I was younger I would rate this at least one more star.
The Incredibles, written & directed by Brad Bird, was very close to flawless. Everything about this film, to the art direction, to the animations, to the script, and all things around it, was portrayed beautifully! The Incredibles won two Academy Awards for Best Animations & Best Sound Editing.The story was charming, focused, and well structured; you really felt like things were on the line every step of the way. Bird did a great job writing a witty and super fun script, while also creating these enjoyable characters, with great voice overs! In this rare occasion with three directors of photography, in Janet Lucroy, Patrick Lin, & Andrew Jimenez, everything seemed flawless, with great animated detail.The music & score by Michael Giacchino, was very up beat, entertaining, and enjoyable, that fit perfect with every scene. Other than My Brother The Pig, this was Giacchino first real big test, and he passed with flying colors.Overall, this was a very charming, family film, that packs a lot of weight, while setting up great for the sequel.
When I saw this for the first time back in 2004 I thought it was a good film with a couple of big issues. Shockingly the first is the overall design of the film is poor. The characters, locales were clearly influenced by Golden age superhero comics-Marvels' Fantastic Four being the most obvious-and the mid 60's ABC action cartoons-i.e. Birdman, Johnny Quest. Those works are 2D, cell animation and the designs are structured for that form. This film never fully adjusted the designs to 3d computer animation and it makes everything slightly off. You can clearly see this in the credits as that 2d animation works better than most of the film. Second, the film's conceptualization of superheroes is dangerously close to the ubermensch for the tykes. Bird's script is sloppy-repeatedly-with the sociological implications of his characters; the script plays out like Watchmen (the comic) filtered through Disney with the critique cut out. I cringe hard when Helen tells Violet 'it's in your blood.'Those problems were still present when I re-watched the film the other day but it was also *boring.* What was once novel and inventive now seems trope-driven and basic. The MCU and the glut of superhero films released since 2004 has zapped most of the life out this film. Add in some films that genuinely try to undermine superheroes-i.e. Brightburn-and there's little to this film worth seeing. This lacks all of the Pixar magic. It's an action flick devoid of charm or whimsey.
Personal but somewhat valid point.
1. 'The Incredibles' is one of the best Pixar movies, even better than Toy Story series and 'Finding Nemo'. 2. 'The Incredibles' has the best heroes, even better than all the Marvel and DC heroes.I'm not a big fan of Marvel and DC because I cannot relate to their almighty, omniscient, and idealistic heroes. However, 'The Incredibles' is full of superheroes with real-life problems whom we can see around the corner. Mr. Incredible is experiencing mid-life agony who lives in past glory; Elastgirl is a busy mother who tries to keep the family together; Violet is a typical teenager who tries to hide her feelings and talents but wants to shine at the same time; Dash is a mischievous boy who wants to prove himself among peers. Sounds familiar? They are like my family who fight and make up. (Even Syndrome is not born with superpower or does not have a grand scheme / philosophical purpose. He just wants to show off.) I love how Mr. Incredible and Elastgirl present extra power and talents to protect their family. Heroes are people as well. And people can be extraordinary when they want to protect what they love rather than when they have to save the world.Parr family is so adorable and relatable, and their different characteristics complete the movie as a whole just as each member complete the Parr family and the strategy to defeat the villain.
He This movie is absolutely wonderful and fun to watch. Love the incredible family and especially love Dash. Essentially superheroes have to go into hiding as world feels they attended causing unnecessary damage. This causes unrest in Mr. Incredible, till he gets a job!
The Incredibles is an amazing movie. The action is beautifully animated, the backgrounds are absolutely gorgeous, the voice talent makes the images come to life in a way the computer animation will never be able to accomplish, Edna Mode is an absolute MOOD and this is one of the most satisfying Disney/Pixar films in their cannon. It takes a story that, to my knowledge, hasn't really been done before, and it creates something so special that it's guaranteed to stick in the heads of their viewers long after the conclusion.
As a kid, it felt a little on the longer side, but watching it nowadays it's not hard to see it for the masterpiece that it truly is.
Let's be honest, almost all Pixar films are brilliant and The Incredibles is no exception. It's witting, brilliant and well worth watching.The good and the... bad(?), just the good then:
The humour is fantastic throughout.The story keeps you grippedThe voices are well cast. In fact the story of how Brad Bird (the Director) struggled to find a voice actor for Edna 'E' Mode before casting himself is great.It leads well into suggesting and indeed fulfilling a second movie, Incredibles 2 (2018) even though it took a good 14 YEARS LATER.The film is 16 years old at the time of writing this review and it's still a highly recommended watch, unlike many of the marvel films from around that time.Recommended for anyone looking for a relaxed, fun and light-hearted animation. Stand back anime you are not even close to the league this type of film is in.
Brad Bird is most definietly the best director Pixar has utilized in their entire history, at least in my opinion. Even though he's only made 3 movies so far, they all have this feeling attached to them that no other Pixar movies do. That is the feeling of maturity, Bird writes and directs his movies as if they were made for adults, and children were more of an after-thought. Nowhere is this clearer than in The Incredibles. The plotline draws you in very easily, and the pacing is extremely good. The dialogue in this movie feels very mature and sophisticated, and Bob and Helens relationsship is portrayed almost uncomfortably realistic, to the point that I didn't catch most of the subtleties as a kid. And that's the biggest strength of the movie, the characters. Each of the family members is portrayed so wonderfully realistic, their struggles feel real and their arguments don't feel obnoxious. The other characters are great as well. Frozone and Edna are both great, and Syndrome is a fantastic villain. He's pathetic and funny yet a genuine threat at the same time. The performances of course help bringing the characters to life, with basically everyone doing a great job with their voice acting. Another thing this movie does very good is the dark undertones. There are a lot of deaths and heartbreak, both to a degree you wouldn't see in a regular Pixar movie. The movie also has excellent score and sound design, and the action scenes are (for a lack of a better word) Incredible. The continuity within the film is great, the characters are fantastic and the visuals are gorgeous. This is one of my all time favorite movies, it's definietly the best Pixar movie and maybe even the best movie released by a Disney-owned company. I highly recommend this to anyone that appreciates deep, meaningful story-telling, and I have no problem giving it the highest score I can.
Bob Parr (AKA Mr. Saving lives every day and fighting evil every day. Fifteen years later, however, superheroes have to adopt civilian identities and live a 'normal life' with their three children Violet, Dash and Jack-Jack as they had to retreat to the slums where they had no choice but to retire (born with superpowers). Eager to act again, Bob seizes his luck when a mysterious communication summons him to a remote island on a top secret mission. He soon discovers that a super family effort will be required to save the world from total destruction.
It's just perfect. No flaws. I may be nostalgia blind from when I was a kid but I still haven't seen a movie better than this one.
What a spectacular movie!!
This is animation at its absolute best.The story is fun but its more about the family, who they are and how much they mean to each other.For a 'kids' film it is surprising long but you never feel like it drags or gets boring, you ride along with the ups and downs of The Incredibles just wishing things will eventually work out for the family that really does mean well.Brilliant film making on every possible level!
A team of superheroes are in action. They're known as 'The Incredibles'. Their job is to save the world from threats. The Incredibles happen to be a family. They're the Parr family. They're in fact superheroes, but have to hide their identity in secret. One of the characters is Mr Incredible also known as Bob Parr - he has super strength. Another character is Helen Parr who goes by the name Elastigirl. She's Bob's wife. She has the ability to stretch her body. They have three children. One of them is a girl named Violet Parr who has the ability to become invisible. The other two are boys. The oldest is Dash Parr who has amazing speed. The other one is Jack-Jack who is only an infant. My favourite is Dash. He's very cute. He's so funny. He's so quick. Let's not forget another character named Lucius Best also known as Frozone. He's not one of the family members. He's also a superhero. He's Bob's best friend. He has the ability to form ice. I like his powers. He happens to be cool hahaha...He was played by Samuel L. Jackson. I find that surprising. I like the animation by the way. The Incredibles is a good superhero movie. There's enough action for you to enjoy. It's also an adventure. It's a fun movie. The family will like it. Incredibly...haha...there happens to be a sequel called the Incredibles 2. It's a family of superheroes.
One of my favorite animated films. Funny and action packed. Never a dull moment. Interesting character arcs tie the whole story together. I could watch this over and over.
I don't like this as much as most do, but 'The Incredibles' is definitely a fun watch.I enjoy how the film starts out, as it introduces the characters and tells some backstories. However, once the film becomes more serious it kinda loses its edge for me. When it's less so though, it's good. The animation is very nice, even if the humans look a tad iffy especially with their expressions.Another part I don't love is the villain, Syndrome. I feel like he's a bit tame, I never once felt fear/angst from the guy at all. A much more devilish, deceptive bad guy would've been far better. I didn't even realise it's Jason Lee who voices him either, it oddly doesn't sound like Lee to me.Talking of mishearing the voice cast, am I the only one who thought it was Jodie Foster voicing Elastigirl? Violet kinda sounds like Aubrey Plaza too. I think I may need my ears tested... Elsewhere, it's cool to hear (correctly, this time) Samuel L. Jackson as Frozone.Don't get me wrong, this is certainly a film worth watching 100%. I just would've loved a greater threat to the protagonists. Lastly, the end scenes, though amusing, feel like a collective of end credit jokes rolled into one. That's a minor complaint, mind.
Pixar is undoubtedly one of the great animation studios. I have no doubt that this film is one of the most remarkable in the life of the studio so far. However, it was not particularly noticeable in my eyes.The film is based on a very simple script around a family with superpowers, in which both parents were superheroes until it became prohibited, under national law, to be a superhero. Unjustly condemned to live a normal life, they feel bad for having to hide their powers from normal people. That, however, may change when Bob, 'Mr. Incredible', receives an invitation to use his powers.The film is quite good, but it didn't surprise or delight me like other films did. The use of excellent CGI and visual effects and an excellently done cinematography are essential elements to make the film visually pleasant, not to say appealing, however, the film seemed too long for the story told, which, in turn, it seemed too basic and predictable, good for a younger audience, but decidedly uninteresting for adults. However, the film makes up for it with good moments of humor. The cast of voices has important and big names like Holly Hunter, Craig Nelson, Samuel L. Jackson and Jason Lee, and there is no doubt that they were all excellent and contributed a lot to make the film a true work of art.Technically, it is a Disney film, and that says everything: careful cinematography and an appealing look, excellent drawings and lines in a film that never goes in search of graphic realism. In addition to this, we have a good soundtrack, which does not bet on songs but in a certain epic and heroic sense that matches quite well with the theme of the entire film.
The Incredibles came out at a time when superhero films were less common than they are in 2018. Nobody is perfect, but anybody can write a perfect sequel like Shrek 2, a perfect prequel like Monsters U, or a perfect film like this: The Incredibles, Why is The Incredibles a perfect film? Well...(giggles) there are 5 different reasons for that.(0) The animation. It's great. It's 2004. The people will look better in 2018. What else is there to say? Good animation can not save bad writing or good writing, so it's not too important. I like the early 1960s touch of the film. Moving on.(1) The characters. Each character is given a superpower that fits their personality. Brad Bird really thought about this. Mr. Incredible is the strong man of his family, Elastigirl is the mom pulled 10 different ways who needs to hold her family together, Violet is the insecure teen who needs to hide herself from strangers, Dash is the kid with a lot of energy, and Frozone is the coolest friend around. I also love the last names that they have, because they also fit their characters and the story. Frozone is Lucius Best. The family's last name is Parr because they need to be up to par with society that outlaws super powers. When they don their superhero outfits, they are no longer the Parrs. They are...the Incredibles.(2) The story. The Incredibles has a great story about Robert Parr dealing with the fact that the glory days are over and he needs to adjust to a new world where superpowers are illegal because of all the damage supers can cause, but after he gets fired from his insurance job, he gets a much better job where he can be a superhero again. The rest of the family also has their own character arcs within the story that we see as they go to the island to find Mr. Incredible. Even Jack-Jack, the baby, gets his own side story, Jack-Jack Attack.(3) The villain. This film has one of the best-executed villains yet who is not only out for revenge against the hero from his glory days, but also ties into the problem of superheroes getting outlawed, so pay attention when you watch this film because this is a spoiler-free review.(4) The superhero action. Not only are all of the fight scenes kept short and concise with less than 5 minutes, they are also well-animated.(5) The memes! The best jokes in this film's moments of dialogue-based comedic relief are some of their funniest lines. 'Coincidence? I think NOT!' 'No capes!' 'Where is my super-suit? We are talking about the greater good!'The Incredibles was Brad Bird's greatest masterpiece. In this film and Ratatouille, he teaches us to accept different people for what is inside and not make fun of them for it. What we do not like about them because it is different, is something that might help us. Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer also taught us that. You know The Incredibles was successful because it was the #1 most-viewed film in its first 2 weeks.
This is without a doubt one of my favorite animated movies, years may have passed but I'm pretty sure this one got Pixar to the high standards it has today nowadays.
Brad Bird done a wonderful job right and directing this movie
Basically, this is a story of a man encountering a mid life crisis and leaping headlong into it without a care or a thought for his family, proving exceedingly selfish and failing to see the good in his life. Meanwhile the wife is left to try and look after the family. Really, that's the story. Now, what Pixar have done is drop in the idea that the parents are Superheroes, banned from being Super many years previously by the Government and the people, trying to live a normal life. Add to the mix that some of their children have inherited their own powers and that the Super villains are planning a comeback, and you have this wonderful movie.On the surface, 'The Incredibles' is a goof on superhero comics. Underneath, it's a critique of modern American uniformity. Mr. Incredible is forced to retire, not because of age or obsolescence, but because of trial lawyers seeking damages for his unsolicited good deeds; he's in the same position as the Boy Scout who helps the little old lady across the street when she doesn't want to go. What his society needs is not super deeds but tort reform. 'They keep finding new ways,' he sighs, 'to celebrate mediocrity.'I often find that animated movies aren't paced well, that they either have too long or too short an introduction to the characters, or the events that lead up to the pivotal point of the movie are unbalanced against the climax, all sorts of combinations. Not here, this move is perfect and well balanced, the story takes you along just when you are ready, and there were no points where I wished we could move on, or something could happen quicker.Brad Bird's previous film was 'The Iron Giant' (1999), about a misunderstood robot from outer space, and the little boy who becomes his friend. It had a charm and delicacy that was unique in the genre, and 'The Incredibles,' too, has special qualities, especially in the subtle ways it observes its gifted characters trying to dumb down and join the crowd. Kids in the audience will likely miss that level, but will like the exuberance of characters like Dash. Grown-ups are likely to be surprised by how smart the movie is, and how sneakily perceptive the script is.It was interesting to see the comparisons and links to other famous Superheroes through comic lore. Definitely with nods to The Fantastic Four, Silver Surfer and huge nods to The Watchmen. My only concern is that there is so much similarity to The Watchmen that those who haven't read the graphic novel will be saying 'That's the Incredibles movie' when Watchmen finally comes to fruition.So what little touches make The Incredibles so appealing? How it starts to deconstruct the idea of a superhero, perhaps, as well as how the family unit is shown in the usual conventions under unusual and funny circumstances. As an example, one of our heroes Mr. Incredible, a.k.a. Bob Parr (voiced wonderfully by Craig T. Nelson), goes to visit a woman who fixes and creates the uniforms of superheroes. In one scene she explains why a cape is not a good idea. This is the kind of scene that might not make it into most Hollywood movies, and would sometimes if not often be discredited as being too 'smart' for kids to get. But by appealing to a kind of level late teens and adults can relate to, it reaches a higher, far more intelligent plane. In fact, many of the best scenes in the film take on what we all know in films displaying the 'family unit' and morph it with the power and imagination of superheroes.Overall, The Incredibles is a film that is, in a way, what audiences wish they could get and rarely do- it's a film with wit and observance, a kind of video-game where the results are not as expectable as can be. Some kids may not get it as much as adults might, which is just as well, as it sometimes operates on a level like Antz did, only through the sphere of Disney. In other words, if you say the teaser trailer, which involved the out-of-shape Mr. Incredible trying with all his might to buckle his tights, you'll know what the film could bring. Personally, I can't wait to see it again
I watched it earlier, it's super nice. There is a Superman baby inside.I watched it again the day before yesterday. I don't remember the content at all. I used to watch it in the whole class when I was in junior high school.At that time, Superman was legalized, and Superman was everywhere to save the world. But once the Almighty Superman saved a suicidal person, the suicidal person sued the Almighty Superman, saying that he did not want to live, not only was saved by the Almighty Superman, but also lived in pain (injured, medical expenses). With this prosecution case, prosecution cases have sprung up like mushrooms all over the world. The government has been forced by public opinion to change the law. A new policy has been formulated, and Superman will no longer be legalized, and Superman cannot use his superpowers.At that time, Almighty Superman had just married Elastic Superman, so he was forced to live a normal life. They gave birth to a bunch of Superman babies and lived in seclusion for fifteen years. But the power given by the heavens is beyond the people's life in seclusion.Dad is infinitely powerful and kind, so being an insurer is not for him. The son runs very fast and always wants to participate in the school sports meeting, but running too fast mother does not recommend participating. The daughter is very shy and timid, so the super power is stealth and shield. There is also a baby who hasn't found super powers yet to be taken care of.Fifteen years ago, after a kid mocked Superman and was teased, the kid remembered all Superman and dreamed that one day he could surpass Superman and save the world. So he developed a robot against Superman. Many Superman died under the robot. Almighty Superman is also trapped in it, and Superwoman and her son and daughter are on their way to save their father.The whole film looks no urine, inspirational growth suitable for the whole family to watch together. American cartoons are not only for children, but for adults and children and the elderly.Finally, in the end, the baby also has super powers, can change the voice of the devil baby, and can increase its own weight. The son successfully participated in the athletics event of the School Games, and took the second place in the encouragement of the family (intentional waterproofing). The daughter knew the love in the family and the mission she shouldered after saving the father No longer timid and introverted, at the same time she also won the favor of the crush boy.The family is happy, with the dream of saving the world, and has a new spirit!
When Superman returns to the ordinary, he is still unwilling to be ordinary, and this time the family of Superman is acting chivalrously, this family is really cute!
I think this is a great movie. Everything about this is good: the characters, storyline, dialogue, and just about everything else. It's a nice movie overall.
Very amazing. Very good. Very good. Very well. Beautiful
This film is full of heart and beautiful animation. Its hilarious and I loved every second of it.
I was a fan of the Incredible group when I was younger. When Disney decided to come out with this movie, I was ecstatic.I always found animation and fiction to be unbelievable. You knew it was going to be special since Pixar led the way on making this.All super hero movies I watched up until 'The Incredibles' were non-animation based. So, to see this presented in front of my eyes was astonishing. The fact that each character had their own distinct personality in the family that suited there super power was excellent too.On top of the drama, seriousness, and tension, there was always a tablespoon of comedy. I enjoyed the Incredibles so much. I always will....no matter how old I am.
Pixar is still living up to expectations, from the idea to the quality of the product is wonderful and exquisite.Pixar's ideas and humor are always fresh and powerful, far better than the rigid, stereotypical, boring animation 'masterpieces' of traditional mainstream studios.
This movie has taken the anti type films of superheroes to the extreme. There is not much talk about the middle-aged crisis and feminism. Talking about 'the villain is caused by superheroes' and 'the anti superhero act' is enough to make several films in Marvel movie universe. Besides, the problems raised by the movie were 14 years ago! Brad bird's films over the years are almost all excellent (except 'tomorrow's world'). It's so successful as a director!
Pixar has again proved that it's ethics and capabilities are inexterminable even for the tough-willed Dreamworks, which are gradually attempting to catch up on with standards. But with Pixar's new title, we once more experience a great gratifying animation which deeps you inside by it's humorous and enthralling plot and keeps you laughing out loudly until the very end. Dreamworks' titles compared to Pixars are not too peculiar, but they seem to rip all their titles from Pixar and create a fake illusion of originality. Now that Pixar has created another chef-d'oeuvre, no doubt Dreamworks will once more rip the idea and create a title relating to superheroes
The intersection of American family comedy and heroism makes 'Superman general mobilization' not only make people laugh, but also make people feel a wonderful warmth of home. The success of this Pixar Animation is not only the special effects and burden, but also the excellent integration of the middle-aged crisis from realism and fantasy.
I love everything about this movie. Extremely well-made in every way, and tons of fun.
What touches me in Superman's General Mobilization is the deep affection between husband and wife, the affection of parents for their children, and the love of children for their parents, which constitutes the touching theme of the film.The feelings and kinship in the film are life-like.In every detail provided by the film, we can feel the unity of the family as a whole:When the elastic superwoman heard that her husband was trapped on an island, she did not hesitate to fly to rescue him; But the superman children, also do not let, volunteer to join the rescue ranks.When a family comes together for a common purpose, that great power erodes everything.
The Incredibles is amazing! Every detail is perfection! The story never disappoints and has a great message of family and teamwork. Every character and scene is unique. Edna Mode is hilarious and like no character I've seen before.Making this movie feel original.
To this day it still feels like the best animated movie.This movie never gets old and always makes me happy.
Superman general mobilization' let me be moved by the deep love between husband and wife, parents' love for their children's calves, and children's love for their parents, which constitute the touching theme keynote of the film. The feelings and family feelings in the film are life oriented. In every detail provided in the film, we can feel the united strength as a family as a whole: when elastic female Superman heard that her husband was trapped on an island, she did not hesitate to fly to the rescue; and Superman's children, who were also kind enough, volunteered to join the rescue team. When a family gets together for a common purpose, that great power is eroding everything.
This is very unexpected that to see so many Incredible things and abilities in Pixar's film.It just like a new world in a simple world which is full of challenges and possibilities.When I was young,I used to watch Disney's film.That was all my childhood
The Incredibles creates an exciting world where superheroes have been oppressed and tells the story of a family of superheroes trying to maintain a cover in suburban life. However, their cover cannot last forever and they have to act to save the world.The family dynamic in The Incredibles is brilliant. It feels real and is an accurate depiction of the busy life of an American family. It also provides the main source of humour for the movie. And following in the footsteps of Finding Nemo, it also has humour on a similar level.Also, for it being a kids' movie, I actually didn't see the plot twist coming. It made total sense and I thought it was really intriguing as a story line. Furthermore, all of the plot points are brought fully circle and make for really enjoyable watching. The scene attacking Syndrome was very well put together and the soundtrack makes it all the better.This is one of the best Pixar movies and indeed superhero movies. At the time of the realise the MCU hadn't even begun yet. Really entertaining viewing.
This animated film 13 years ago made me surprised at the time, because its theme is novel. Superman becomes a family, no longer every lonely individual, every member of the family has a good strength, but still cooperate with each other and protect each other.Looking at the helplessness of Mr. Super in the face of work, facing the family and even facing himself, it is simply to see us. In addition to the attractive story, whether it is the style of painting, the sound effect, and then the tight grasp of the rhythm of the plot are great, and there are many laughter points, which are both nervous and heart-wrenching, both happy and moved.
Very very very good good good animation of action. Heroes is so good
This movie gives you something you'd never expect from an animated film! I loved this so much!
At first I was reluctant to watch this movie because I thought it was very cheesy from what I saw in the trailer, but it was the opposite of what I had seen. He has his mellow moments of happy life as a couple and with children, although they knew how to complement him well with the action and with the superhero Frozono who was great, who by the way had to make him a cooler outfit than that white and light blue. I think the downturns of the movie are when the villain is on stage: bored, irritable and ominous.The good: The different powers of the Incredible and Frozone family.The bad: The villain Syndrome, what a bad character.
The Incredibles presents a family with superpowers that must deal with living in a world where using super powers is illegal. Pixar yet again presents a fun, clever, and original idea to the big the screen for all ages to enjoy. And the execution of this concept is absolutly stellar! Brad Bird's pixar films truly are not made for children, they are made to satisfy adults while still making it something that kids can enjoy.
All four of the characters go through a self-changing arc that turns them into better people by the end of the film. Mr. Incredible learns that his family is more important than his desires, Elastigirl learns that her husband cares more about his family than she is willing to admit, Violet learns that opening up and embracing yourself is better than hiding in the shadows, and dash learns that slowing down every once in a while isn't the end of the world. All of this helps strengthen not only the characters, but also their relationships to one another.
Syndrome is one of the greatest cinematic villains in history. His character and plan is so logical and clever that is has been replicated multiple times in other superhero films (including twice in the MCU).
The film never seems to skip a beat. When our heros are not fighting crime, they are fighting at the dinner table with each other. Every scene has a purpose whether it is for the advancement of the plot or developing the family.
This film is just about perfect, because every element compliments the other in a naturally cohesive and entertaining way.
It's been over 15 years since The Incredibles was released and having just watched it all I can think is... WOW! Yes, compared to Incredibles 2, the visuals haven't all aged perfectly but given its age I can absolutely forgive that.What really blows me away is the depth, the layers of not just the story but the characters. Each time I watch this I feel like I'm keying in on something new and that amazes me.If you've somehow missed this one, go watch it. Now.
It just when you look at it a bad superhero animated movie for its time of release it might been cool,great and awesome but now when there is some better superhero cartoons it is bad.i liked how superheros appeared original but some of them were just typical superhero rip-offs.i will not get in detail that is up to you to figure out.but overall it is bad.
An animation masterpiece of Pixar. One of the best superhero movies of all time. Everything is great about that movie. It is a classic, it always will be.
Incredibles is what a title implies incredible,pixar did a masterful work in this film starting with awesome characters that are likeable and fun to watch ,to animation whos still looks amazing and it holds up today in every moments of scenes,film also has some for that time impressive action scenes that are visually nice to watch,samuel l jackson as frozone also did a awesome job and i wish that we got more of him since he stole every scene he was in,syndrom as a villain surved its purpose but in moments he felt like to cliched to be taken seriously,incredibles is one of best pixar films ever made and defienetly also one of my favourites animated movies
For me something very important in a Pixar film is the Characters.
In this film we have:Characters - 10Visual - 4Story - 8Villain - 7The only thing not so good in this film is the v visual efects but in Incredibles 2 that is a good point.The story is of the characters is very good.The Villain is something that I never seen in a Pixar film. You really have fear of him and his plans.So what I can saw is that this film is Incredibe
The story, the world, the music, the characters, the action, the 'normal' life of a family of superheroes and Edna Mode makes this film not incredible, but a PERFECT MASTERPIECE!
Nemo just slightly edges this out for me, but this movie is great just the same. It is filled with the kind of things that makes a life long superhero nerd smile and laugh. This is the story of a family of superheros that have adapted to civilian life. The reason for this? As the world became more litigious, people that were hurt collaterally by superheros started to sue for their injuries. This plot device is genius because it is so very believable. After years in retirement Bob Parr, AKA Mr. Incredible gets recruited for a mission by a mysterious person. Of course the person that recruits Bob has nefarious intentions, and unleashes a seemingly indestructible machine on the world. It is us the the Parrs, Mr. Incredible, Elastigirl, Violet and Dash, along with the family friend Frozone to save the day. I love that they cast Sam Jackson in the role as Frozone, because his super power is making ice, and Sam Jackson is the coolest MF out there. This is a great movie, not just from an animation stand point, but in the whole realm of superhero films as well.
A highly enjoyable Super Hero movie, that will delight both children and adults alike. Well worth watching and the computerized animation is skillfully executed. Recommended to just about everyone, with fantastic characters and nicely executed voice overs. Hugely enjoyable.
A Super Herp movie as a whole was amazing the cast choice is good the animation of the film is what they use today as pixar is one of the best animation studio in the world they make good story for all of the movie that they make and a solid of a film and when we get to see that Jack Jack has powers was well done
Rating10/10This stunning film succeeds on multiple levels. Action, comedy, drama, visuals all are great. The script is deceptively clever combining multiple genres. Has better action scenes than most live action movies.One of the all time great animated films.
The best movies I watched It's in my top 10 list it talks about a family struggle with superpowers when they are banned and can there use their super powers
Here are likewise excellent moments of fun at the genre conventions- especially the supervillains ' tendency to indulge in verbosity ('You dumb dog, you've got me monologuing!'), and the James Bond gags and other film references are smart enough. But in its last act, the film loses its comedic thrust and ends up being the very thing that makes it sport otherwise.And that's too bad because The Incredibles is fairly awesome when it's on its game.
Well it was good for its comedy but it didn't need all those sence
Was just watching this on 'normal' TV....was shocked under the info setting to see the user reviews at 75%......II must say I was shocked (again :) to see some of the negative reviews of this movie. I literally had no idea that ANYONE would dislike this movie. That's simply because it is, for lack of a better word, perfect. Well, at least, in my opinion. That said, I'm giving that opinion as an adult (not sure all parents of very young children would agree with me....and that's fine). Not trying to counter some of the negative nellies out there. Just saying this is a great movie. That's it. Full stop.
I was worried that this would be an annoying kids' movie. But we actually enjoyed it. We found it a good light hearted movie for any age.
Excellent superhero film for non-Marvel/D.C. fans.
I didn't love this as much as monsters inc but I liked it better than finding nemo because even though that was good It just wasn't on of my favourites. But I still really love this movie. And it is actually pixars most difficult film to date and for that I appreciate this.
This deserved the Oscar nomination this not only one of the best superhero movies of all time it's also one of the best family films of all time I'll just say it's a deep family drama disguised as a superhero movie
No movie is perfect, but if a film still has the ability to keep you entertained after watching it for the 10th time, it's gotta come close. While action based superhero movies are not everyone's cup of tea (I'm not even a huge superhero fan) this movie does something with the genre that works so well. I am not a film critic, or an expert movie reviewer; I'm writing this based on my personal experience and bias. Some people's perfect movie is Lord of the Rings, or Indian Jones. But this film is my perfect movie, and I'm positive that others who grew up on this movie would agree with me. That being said, everyone who likes movies, especially animation, should check out this film if they haven't already.
7/10 - not the cult classic others make it out to be, but still fun animated fare
So. The presentation of the characters and the themes presented about normal human problems (midlife crisis for the 'Family Dad' losing his youth and/or masculinity with a meaningless job; the 'mother' that gave up everything personal to raise the children; socially awkward teenage
uncomfortable with what she is; little kid learning the responsibility and dangers of his powers/virtues) is awesome.
Maybe even a bit too long? I loved it.After that, it gets into the story, the Syndrome (villain) character and the other overall theme: exceptionality. This movie reaffirms that some people are just better than others (which, yeah true I guess?), and every effort to try to make life and rules similar for everybody, is bad (socialism/communism is bad).
As a leftist, I do not agree with the movie, but what they want to communicate, they do and perfectly.My problem is with the characters towards the end. When the 3rd act starts, all the nuanced characterization and matured reaction of every human, is thrown out of the window.
Characters do stuff and the movie never even comes close to make them ponder with what they did. That wouldn't be such a big problem if earlier in the movie, characters reflect on their decisions or think before they act.One example: Mr. Incredible has the chance to do something to try to get the job done, but it is immoral. He doesn't do it, showing that he is, in fact, a hero that deserves the special treatment he asks (and the movie asks) for. Later in the movie, he just does that immoral act, and while totally justifiable, the movie acts like it was nothing, making the earlier scene totally irrelevant, because then, our hero is good because we say it's good, not because of his entire characterization. Anyways. Great movie, but there are some really small things here and there like this.
Very funny, good action, very entertaining. (about 4 viewings)
This is an incredibly entertaining film that should delight the whole family. It's filled with excitement, meta-humor, great characters, it boasts a fantastic soundtrack, and enough action to keep me coming back for more.
For hundreds of other reviews, articles, and podcast episodes visit True Myth Media!
Shortly after Dreamworks screwed up with the uninspired 'Shark Tale', Pixar contains its remarkably success story with 'The Incredibles'. And while I have to say that I liked 'Finding Nemo' a bit better, 'The Incredibles' is still an amazing movie.First of all, this is because it's funny. It's not so funny that you're constantly laughing out loud, but there are more than enough good jokes in the movie to keep you entertained, and it's full of good observations about superhero movies (note all the ridiculous superhero and villain names) and references to other movies. It's also a brilliant James Bond spoof/homage, containing all the gadgets, secret island bases and crazy schemes that made early Bond movies so much fun.Secondly, this movie has heart and charm in droves. It's full of memorably and likable characters you can really identify with and care about. Characters like Edna are instant classics. The voice acting is universally excellent, but Holly Hunter steals the show as Elastigirl. This is a movie that doesn't need toilet humor, characters modeled like celebrities, or a 'hip' soundtrack...it easily succeeds on charm and style alone.Also, I found it to be a surprisingly good action movie. The plentiful action sequences are full of energy, extremely fast-paced, and exciting, and put many a live-action movie to shame.Finally, I also liked the tone and message of the movie. 'The Incredibles' basically makes a plea against mediocrity, breaking with the politically correct idea that 'everybody is special' (and thus nobody really is), and encouraging people to use the talents they have been given. I think this couldn't be more true. Not all people are equally talented (just compare Pixar to Dreamworks), but this is no reason to keep the talented people from not reaching their full potential just because it makes the less talented ones feel bad.'The Incredibles', while maybe not as hilarious as I had hoped (though it's still very funny), is nonetheless an extremely entertaining movie, that manages to charm you wit its combination of great characters, lots of style, tongue-in-cheek attitude and good message. Highly recommended
It's great movie with great action, dialogue and animation. This perfected hair and skin rendering. The story's about a superhero named Mr. Incredible and his struggles of living in a world where superhero's are no illegal. Wanting to relive the glory days and make enough money to provide for his family he agrees to work for an enigmatic company that may have a hidden agenda.Meanwhile, his family have to cope with him gone. Elastigirl has to balance work and raising her 3 kids Dash, Violet and the baby Jack-Jack. Soon it becomes apparent that it may take a family of superhero's to save the day. What I like about this movie's the animation and the sense of humor.The characters look like 2D cartoons rendered in 3D. They have well defined personalities. Bob's a bumbling, frustrated yet well meaning father, Helen's an uptight yet loving mother, Dash's a busy, energetic boy and Violet's a shy, moody introvert. The humor pokes fun at superhero's and suburban life as a whole. It also has some pretty interesting messages like the villains you see on tv are nothing like the ones in real life.Another is be careful who you treat because they may be your enemy before you know it. In this case a once overzealous fan becomes the main antagonist named Syndrome(Jason Lee). He's an interesting villain. With that being said this's a great movie. One of Pixar's best. I highly recommend you check this one out.
This is suppose to be a kids movie, im 21, but i love to watch classical disney/pixar movies. and iv never seen this till now, the only thing i did not enjoy about this movie was it should of been about 20 mins shorter.. not sure how young kids can keep focused on a movie like this for that long.
Tonight I watched this film once again. It's not the best film but it has its positives. The superheroes are in hiding after lawsuits were brought against them for their damages. One, Bob (also known as Mr. Incredible), wants to relieve his glory days, and does so, a bit, with his friend, Lucius (Frozone), a Black man. Bob is married to Helen (Elastagirl) and they have three children: Violet (who can turn invisible), Dash (who can run very fast), and Jack Jack (a baby said to not have powers). Also, the designer, Edna, is a fun character who adds character to the film.A messenger, Mirage, gives Mr. Incredible a message which Bob takes in stride to relieve his glory days, after he was fired from his dead end job as a bureaucrat who helps people go around the system, to benefit them. He goes to a secluded island and finds that a man with blown back and colored hair (white) named Syndrome, confronts him. This man was once a superfan of Mr. Incredible but he was turned away, saying that he liked to work alone, so he set out to get venegance once and for all. Soon, Mr. Incredible is captured, after finding out that Syndrome murdered superheroes, and the whole 'super' family comes to save him. The movie, in that sense, becomes a bit of a family movie, which is why it was clearly a success, while also fitting into the superhero genre.The villain, Syndrome, despite the fact he is a murderous and power-hungry psychopath has a plan to make technology that would make everyone superheroes available to all. But, perversely he wants to become a superhero himself and save the day. Not surprisingly, the elitist message of superheroes wins out, with people respecting these 'god-like' figures by the end, like the 'old days.' Perhaps this is no surprise as the film itself is not set in the present but rather in the 1960s, with the 'glory days' in the 1940s. This is interesting because Brad Bird, admitted to Michael Barrier in 2005 that he was 'not a big comic-book reader' and argued that he tried to 'base the powers on family archetypes' of the father, mother, teenage girls, ten-year boys, and babies.While you could say this film is positive, it falls into the typical Hollyweird qualities you would expect, like the prominence of male superheroes (three of the five on screen) and possible sexist attitudes by some, like Lucius, or even Bob, who lies to his wife about his activities for MONTHS! While the writer and director of the film, Brad Bird, after noting he had the idea for the film for 12 years and that the film feels realistic even though it is animated, he told IGN in 2005 that people who said that the film had undercurrents of Ayn Rand or Nietzsche are wrong, as are those that said there was 'sort of a right-wing feeling,' arguing that he is 'a centrist and feel like both parties can be absurd.' This brings us to how Frederica Mathewes-Green of National Review describes the film, in 2009, summarizing from other social conservatives, as skipping pop culture references and 'gross jokes in favor of a story that celebrates marriage, courage, responsibility, and high achievement.' It goes onto say that the film shows a 'family of superheroes...living an anonymous life in the suburbs, thanks to a society that doesn't appreciate their unique talents,' but the society then 'comes to need them.'In a large way, this is not wrong, and I would argue they are correct. After all,
the film is in some ways a criticism of the superhero genre, in that the superheroes have fit into society, a petty bourgeois 'middle class' life to be exact, avoiding the spotlight. But other films, like Watchman, or the Deadpool films, are a bit stronger on this point. You could say that this film also is conservative in its criticism of bureaucracy and government as the enemy of the heroes, in some ways. So, I would argue that the film has conservative undertones, although it is not necessarily along the lines of Atlas Shrugged or something like that. Even so,it is still a funny movie that should have a rating of 5 out of 10.
The great thing about Pixar is that there is no obvious best movie. I switch between my five favourites again and again but it always ends up with incredibles being my favouriteThere is so many small things that makes this movie a masterpiece that I don't think a small review would do it justice. Go watch if you hadn't already, it's hilarious, action packed and filled to the brim with genius commentary
'The Incredibles' (2004) written and directed by Brad Bird. Starring the voices of Craig T. Nelson, Holly Hunter, Sarah Vowell, Samuel L. Jackson and more. After all these years, all I have to say is: 'Incredible!' (NO PUN INTENDED). This is my favorite Pixar movie, the best 3D movie and also one of my top 10 all-time favorite movies. Everything in this movie is nothing short of outstanding, the story, the voice acting, the soundtrack, the animation, etc. This is another example of what I classify as a perfect movie. It's full of great plots and subplots, with twists and turns you won't see coming! I'm not going to spoil anything about this movie, because there are actually people out there who haven't seen it (WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? GO SEE IT!) I might actually go watch it after I finish typing this review! it's definitely worth buying on DVD. I obviously give this film a full 5 out of 5 star rating, which equates to 10 out of 10 IMDB stars. If you haven't seen 'The Incredibles' yet, you need to check it out. It is, and always will be, incredible!
Hight priced animated features sometimes turn me off. So I was wary. I am a bit hesitant because there are so many coming out these days. That aside, I got a big kick out of this film. First of all, the superheroes portrayed were a family with family problems and weaknesses. There is humor, but it is natural humor, not the lowest common denominator as so many are these days. It has the plot of some adversity, but ultimately there is a kindness here.
Very good film, with great plot and genius script. A classic film
The early 2000s were the days where superhero movies were just coming into there own and disney pixar were deciding a superhero movie would be a great idea and in a time where some of the superhero movies were cringy and ok at best this is one that gets underlooked as a superhero movie and even now it still holds up as a aninmated action/spy thriller/superhero movie but it's also a detailed look at a American family who happen to have super powers and it can change the entire family dynamic.
the cast is Craig T. Nelson Bob Parr / Mr. Incredible, Holly Hunter Helen Parr / Elastigirl, Samuel L. Jackson Lucius Best / Frozone, Jason Lee Buddy Pine / Syndrome, Dominique Louis Bomb Voyage, Spencer Fox Dashiell 'Dash' Parr, Sarah Vowell Violet Parr and Brad Bird Edna 'E' Mode. Growing up watching this movie these voices of these actors sticks with me and the preformaces one is because i watched this movie way to much as a kid and the other reason is beacause well the performances are just incredible no pun intended so the entire cast just can't be replaced because i strongly connect growing up with hearing there voices as a chracter that i enjoy watching on screen.
The Incredibles is well just amazing the way that it becomes a commentary on the family dynamic with a loving but sometimes strained marrage the social awkward teenager trying to fit in the younger boy who is just filled to the brim with energy and obviously a baby doing baby things and they do a great job with adding things like super powers and it can change the dynamic and make it 50% worse than it already is. Also Sydrome is such a great villian all of his actions become so justifible when you realise what he went through and then you understand that he was just a troubled boy who wanted to be a superheo when he was told he retaliated like a child because deep down he was still a child because that was taken from him.
The Incredibles is such a great movie if you haven't seen it it's a must watch and you should check it out for me it's a solid 8/10
A weird family trying to act normal in the suburbs until they get bored....Great chase scenes, especially when Jack runs through the forest...Still hilarious after countless re-watches although the animation not as much...the violent and isolating themes makes it Pixar's most adult film but ultimately the animated bursts, sudden recovery maneuvers, and one-liners will remind you it is still predictable wide-release family flick.
Pixar's new title, we once more experience a great gratifying animation which deeps you inside by it's humorous and enthralling plot and keeps you laughing out loudly until the very end. Dreamworks' titles compared to Pixars are not too peculiar, but they seem to rip all their titles from Pixar and create a fake illusion of originality. Now that Pixar has created another chef-d'oeuvre, no doubt Dreamworks will once more rip the idea and create a title relating to
Another film rewatched and reviewed in my quest to earn the 2006 Oscars badge.
Outlawed and retired from his prime as a superhero, Mr. Incredible (voiced by Craig T. Nelson) is frustrated with his dull job and, though he loves them, his family, despite their powers, aren't providing him with the outlet he's looking for. He's provided with another opportunity for greatness when offered the chance to takedown an experimental robot that's loose on a tropical island.
I never particularly loved 'The Incredibles', I'm not sure why so I was hoping this repeat viewing might clear it up. Visually it's not aged particularly well. The faces of the characters are lacking definition and plasticy and though the ice, fire and explosion effects are decent, water and wetness is not as well done. Vocal performances are good throughout and the future/sixties vibe works pretty well.
Storyline wise its ok, but it does take quite a while to get started. There aren't that many genuine laughs though but the action picks up once the whole family make it to the island.
I do, in retrospect, prefer it to its sequel but in terms of both the superhero genre and the standards of animation now, its light years behind something like 'Into The Spider-verse'. Of course, without 'The Incredibles' and its massive success, we probably don't get these subsequent films.
Wow it was too amazing.I am your biggest fan.Brilliant movie.
When Mr. Incredible, aka Bob Parr (Nelson), catches a jumper who doesn't want to be saved, he opens the door to a wave of legal compensations that puts all superheroes out of business and into a relocation programme. Years later, Bob and Helen - formerly Elastigirl - are trying raise a 'normal' family when they receive a mysterious call for help.
Writer-director Brad Bird has been shopping his cartoon riff on comic books around Hollywood for nigh on ten years. During that decade, a digital revolution has sucked the lead from the pencils of traditional animators. Bird, who earned his stripes as a key member of The Simpsons' creative team and gave The Iron Giant a defiantly lo-fi sheen in 1999, may once have intended to hand-draw his superhero family, but it's no surprise that, once the 3D-CG era dawned, the director was himself drawn to Pixar Studios.If it ain't broke, so they say, don't fix it, and - with five home runs from five at bat ù-the only thing Pixar has broken so far is the bank. And yet, Finding Nemo proved to be the company's biggest box office whale so far, it was also apparent that the Pixar formula was now perhaps picked clean. Like A Bug's Life and Monsters, Inc. before it, Nemo's design was drafted straight from John Lasseter's Toy Story blueprint - mismatched buddies, colourful supporting cast, road movie, yada, yada, yada. Bird, however, is the first outsider to be welcomed into the Pixar family, and he has parlayed the creative freedom afforded him to deliver something altogether different: part domestic sitcom with human characters and adult concerns, part costume caper with breathless action sequences and production design ripped from Bond boffin Ken Adam's most fevered dreams.Most superhero movies employ a number of costume changes, but The Incredibles features just one of note. Following a bit of historical business to explain the crimefighter relocation programme, the first half keeps the suits - and the powers - firmly in the closet, as our humbled hero fights corporate tyranny as an insurance clerk by day and mines cheap thrills by listening to the police scanner at night. Only when Bob is lured out of retirement and into danger do he and the family call upon a celebrated fashion designer - voiced by Brad Bird himself in full 'dahling' mode, and an unmistakable highlight - to provide the obligatory threads.The little black masks subsequently remain on, but for adults it is the earlier interplay between Bob and Helen that'll likely linger longest. Unlike, say, Shrek, Bird never scatter-guns gags at the screen or short-changes character for a joke. He has a smattering of bulletproof set-pieces to lean upon - look out for the bit with capes - but mostly the gags are organic, generated by the story rather than offered in place of one. In fact, the oddly melancholy first half is closer in tone to superior suburban indie comedies like Office Space or The Good Girl than anything Pixar has so far produced.The younger demographic will doubtless be relieved when the evil mastermind is unmasked and the Incredible kids finally get in on the action, but the relentless - and overcooked - final reel inevitably leaves less room for character grace notes. And while the action is expertly tooled, those critics of CGI who feel cartoony FX can diminish the sense of jeopardy in live-action movies are hardly likely to be sweating bullets over the fates of drawings. Indeed, it's perhaps a shame it's taken Bird's movie a decade to reach the screen, as the recent glut of live-action superhero feats has inevitably stolen some of the thunder from his cartoon marvels.Still, even if The Incredibles is just an arranged marriage between superhero romp and classic sitcom, this hybrid has enough highlights for everybody to guarantee Pixar another critical and commercial hit. Looks like 2004 has given birth to a new superhero franchise after all.
A super hero family with all different powers! Sign me up. Funny action pack movie for all ages.
Keeps you attention throughout the whole movie and is really funny and entertaining everything about this movie is perfect
Along with it's successor, this is the best of the genre.Big questions and wise answers rolled up into an enjoyable adventure.
I watched this again recently and was left a bit disappointed. I remember it being amazing and it just didn't hit those heights for me. Still a decent film
5 November 2004. This is one of the best animated feature films of all-time breaking through to the family, comedy, action-thriller movie genre that can compete with live-action movies. The animation, the intelligent script, plot, and humor are all blended into a super format that made the Iron Giant so popular and an instant animated classic. The Incredibles will be one of those movies that will set a new benchmark in animation and perhaps in family movies for years to come. Certainly this movie argues for the elimination of the new Academy Award animation category and allow animated feature films to compete along with the other movie genres on a level playing field. A certainty for a Golden Globe nomination, this movie was awesome, if a bit long and slow in a few places (editing could have tightened it up), but overall, a marvelous effort, exciting, compelling, and funny with a great dose of human values and family values all wrapped up in a retro-contemporary cartoon package just right from the current day. Nine out of Ten Stars.
Ready to become a superhero?Pixar brings to life a family with superpowers with 4 people try to cooperate.Voice talents by Holly Hunter,Samuel Jackson and Graig Nelson and here's the new jackpot
The Incredibles is directed by Brad Bird and features the voices of Craig T Nelson(The Proposal),Holly Hunter and Jason Lee(Alvin And The Chipmunks) and tells the story about a supposedly ordinary family The Parrs who are hiding a secret. They are really superheros who take down bad guys and save the world. Helen Parr(voiced by Holly Hunter) is Elasticgirl, her husband Bob Parr(Nelson) is the leader Mr Incredible,his daughter Violet can turn herself invisible,while his son can run very fast and his baby son can shapeshifts,and do cool things.
The Incredible are put to the test when a villian named Syndrome(Lee) who we also see in the beginning as the young boy who wants to join Mr Incredible but is rejected by him as he told Buddy(Syndrome) that he works alone. Since then Syndrome seeks revenge. Will the incredibles along with frozone(Samuel L Jackson ) save the day?With a running time of almost 2 hours(yes you could say it's the longest animated film ever made since Fantasia),this film is packed with great animation,gorgeous visuals and a great cast.
Thumbs up.
A wonderful family friendly, full of fun and laughs for everyone, a truly must-see for all and not forgetting number 2! Enjoy
This is a great and original take on the super hero genre that will delight children and adults alike.
I sort of watched them out of order. I wasn't really privy to the existence of The Incredibles until my fiance wanted to rent the sequel...and then I went back and watched the first one.I have to say that I liked 2 more, but only because it looked like a period pop art piece and the first one you really didn't get that feel. It was clearly set in the early 60s, but you didn't get that whole esthetic as much as you did in the sequel and that was the biggest draw I had to it.That being said, it was't bad.Sociopolitically I liked the line about when everyone has super powers no one does. It registered loudly to someone that works in history. So the plot, on that basis, was compelling.And I am sure that if I had seen them in order I'd like it just as much.The sequel, the main draw that sucked me in was the look of the film. Here it was the quasi-family struggles which, again, seemed to be highlighted a little better in the second film. Still, it was there enough, the work-life balance to draw you in, and the absurdity that the work was being a hero was entertaining.As was the reason they had to go underground which, again, was done a little better than when the MCU tried it...but still not elaborated on enough to make it as interesting as it could have once been.In any case, it's still an entertaining cartoon. And you can see where the creators took what worked in the first one and elaborated on the concepts until they popped.
I adored this film so much! It's one of the few films I'll definitely let my future kid/s watch because of the values I hope they'll get while watching the movie. It truly was an incredible ;) experience watching this film.
My favourite animated film by far.
Smart, intelligent and just incredible fun on so many levels.
The Incredibles is one of the must watch animated movie. Even though it is released in 2004, it's visual effects is stunning.
Entertaining (How enjoyable is the movie to me): 10
Escapist (How involved was I in the movie's world): 10
Emotional (How much did it make me feel): 8
Enlightening (How much did I learn about the universe and myself): 7
THE INCREDIBLES had a mistake which got erased because the entire movie is hardly ever given to us without guidance.
One of the best animated film ever created. Well deserved 2 Oscars.
The Incredibles is a funny and very entertaining original story about a family of superheroes. This is one of the most mature Pixar movies (if not THE most) with certain themes in the story and action and is incredibly entertaining.
Back when this movie came out, it was HUGE. It should be. After rewatching it since then??? Not as good or better as then. Good movie, but I'd give it more of a 7 than an 8.
A movie that I can watch over and over again and never get bored of it.
This film was ahead of its time. Its a nicely done and paced film from start to finish. Children and alike will enjoy a great entertaining flick.
Earlier this year, when Disney finally completed their takeover of 21st Century Fox, Marvel fans rejoiced at the idea of the X-Men and the Fantastic Four finally being brought into the fold and into the Marvel Cinematic Universe. After the silly, family-friendly Fantastic Four we got back in 2005 and its only-slightly-better sequel in 2006, Josh Trank's much-anticipated 2015 reboot failed spectacularly, causing Fox to shelve the tainted franchise indefinitely. Since Kevin Feige and the MCU can seemingly do no wrong, we will finally be getting an interpretation worthy of Marvel's first family. What most fans didn't realise however, is that we already had a great Fantastic Four movie, only it wasn't made by Marvel and didn't feature the likes of Mr. Fantastic and the Human Torch. No, I'm not referring to Roger Corman's 1994 disaster, but the one made by Pixar Studios called The Incredibles, which is still to this day one of the greatest superhero movies of all time.The world has been blessed with the arrival of superheroes: super-powered beings who dress up in masks and tights, battling crime in their spare time to the adoration of a grateful public. But with the rise of superheroes comes the rise of supervillains, all with equally outlandish costumes, nicknames and powers. Public opinion suddenly shifts when famous hero Mr. Incredible (Craig T. Nelson) saves a man from suicide, and the lawsuits start to hit the caped crusaders. In response, the government starts the Superhero Relocation Program, designed to hide the supers in society and keep their crime-fighting antics at bay. Years later, Mr. Incredible is living a dull suburban existence with his wife Elastigirl (Holly Hunter) and their three children Violent (Sarah Vowell), Dash (Spencer Fox), and baby Jack-Jack. His work at an insurance company brings him no joy, so he helps the vulnerable to find loopholes in the company's policies to ensure they pay out, and spends some nights with old buddy Frozone (Samuel L. Jackson) listening to a police radio. But life seems to have meaning once again when he is contacted by a mysterious woman named Mirage (Elizabeth Pena), who offers the overweight lug a top-secret mission on a secret island base.Pixar is famous not only for the quality of their movies, but for how their products can be loved by anybody in any age group. Children will enjoy the bright colours and spectacular action, adults will appreciate the sly wit, and just about everybody will fall for the heart. Yet despite its somewhat glossy appearance, The Incredibles is Pixar at its most mature. While the film does gift its characters super-strength, super-speed and invisibility, The Incredibles is really about dysfunction and the trappings of family life and a 9 to 5 job. Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl have reached crisis point, with the latter left to dealt with children only just discovering their powers while the former is off daydreaming about the glory days. It's what drives the drama, and is ultimately what makes you hold your breath when they are in danger or want to punch the air when they suit up to face their foe. Such an honest depiction of marital life doesn't make for depressing viewing however, with writer/director Brad Bird mixing in some fine slapstick humour and the mic-dropping costume designer Edna Mode (voiced by Bird himself). 14 years after its release, it still remains one of Pixar's finest, and Bird finds the perfect balance of comedy, drama and action as he did with his other animated classic, The Iron Giant.
The Incredibles is nothing short of incredible. Even though it's animated, it's one of the greatest superhero movies of all time, and it's one of my favorite movies of all time, AND it's my favorite animated movie of all time! Jeez, this movie is a record-breaker when it comes to being among the best of its kind. And the movie CERTAINLY reflects that.What's the story? In this lauded Pixar animated film, married superheroes Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl are forced to assume mundane lives as Bob and Helen Parr after all super-powered activities have been banned by the government. While Mr. Incredible loves his wife and kids, he longs to return to a life of adventure, and he gets a chance when summoned to an island to battle an out-of-control robot. Soon, Mr. Incredible is in trouble, and it's up to his family to save him.No good superhero movie is without its action, and this movie definitely doesn't disappoint. The action scenes in this movie are phenomenal, especially the final battle where the Parr family have to destroy Syndrome's mega Omnidroid. Also, the animation, while looking a bit dated by today's standards, looked amazing for its time, and today it still looks very solid. Also, the performances are great. Craig T. Nelson does a great job at playing Mr. Incredible/Bob Parr, and you can tell Mr. Incredible's feelings with his voice, something all movies should do but unfortunately don't always succeed. This film, however, definitely succeeds in that category. Holly Hunter is also very good at playing Elastigirl/Helen Parr, even if she sounds like she's wearing braces. The characters are likable and very identifiable to a lot of families with major issues, and it is very realistic to those. Also, I like how the film focuses more on the family and not the action. It's a great twist on the superhero genre I think a lot of superhero films should use, especially ones like Ant-Man and Spider-Man, which do focus on the main hero's family, but not like this.In conclusion, The Incredibles is an incredible movie under the genius mind of Brad Bird, who also made The Iron Giant, Ratatouille, Mission: Impossible- Ghost Protocol, Tomorrowland (which wasn't that great) and the sequel, Incredibles 2. Brad Bird did a great job at directing, and the movie itself holds a strong story, a great script, very nice animation, memorable characters, an awesome score, and some epic action. If you like superheroes, you'll love The Incredibles. It's a film for everyone.
The sort of film you can sit down and watch with anyone, at any time of the year and as many times as you want.For years and years this was unrivalled as my favourite ever film and I was so excited when I saw it again last year. It wasn't quite as good as I'd told myself, but it was very enjoyable and is perfect for the family. Good story line, good humour, well made film.
With this film Brad Bird brings something interesting into the superhero craze. He takes the normal superhero norm (secret identities, superpowers, supervillain etc.), and combines it with the spy aesthetic of the early James Bond films. And why not? The stories, the covert operations, the code names and all that feel very much at home in both genres and they mix together almost seamlessly.Bird's approach is also interesting in that he focuses rather heavily on family dynamics. And just how similar and familiar they feel despite the whole family having superpowers. Quite honestly it makes them more human than any X-Men film has ever managed. Not because their struggles are so similar, so humane in nature. But because they are human, plain and simple.Not that the film doesn't work in any other way. Far from it. It's a beautifully - really beautifully, in fact - animated adventure film with great characters, great villains, great locations and all that jazz. I especially love the use of colour in the film. Every single frame makes me love the 60s aesthetic even more.If I had to nitpick, I perhaps could say that the villain is perhaps a bit too goofy. He manages to be menacing when he needs to, which is not something every goofy villain can say, but there still a couple of scenes where his performance doesn't quite flow. At least for me.Still, one of the better Pixar films to date and certainly one of the more unique superhero films our there. Certainly worth a watch.
Hard to believe that this film will be hitting it's 15th anniversary next year! Sure makes one feel old thinking about that and looking back over all the years. But in 2004, this film was the most successful animated film. I can't quite remember what other animated films cameout that year! Seems it's been so long.The casting was awesome, the writing was brilliant and Brad Bird's direction was stunning. This film stars Craig T. Nelson as Bob Parr/Mr. Incredible, but if you were around in the late 80s/early 90s, you'll remember him from the TV show Coach. Nelson does great voice over work. I was really excited when a sequel was announced in 2016. The Incredible's was a true achievement, and hoping for a trilogy.
Best Action,Middle Level Animation,Nice Story.It has mostly (NND) no need dialogs.Near To Incredibles ...Nice Watching :)
The Incredibles is one of the fastest movies that got into my heart, from the first time I watched it and I couldn't!
It's really a new way to tell a story about some retired superheroes and how they love and live their private lives, with and without being a superhero.
I found this movie a piece of art when I grew up and watched it again and again and again, and I never got bored of it, everytime I watched it, it was like the first I do! It's somehow not easy to find some movies like this, entertaining, enjoyable, funny, colorful, heroic, family, animated, charismatic and incredible!
I wondered 'how can they create such a movie like that?!'
So I watched it with my entire focus, trying to find a problem or a mistake, but I didn't find anything but awesomeness!
I'm glad and proud to be living in a world that this movie exists in it!
With no dout I'm gonna give this movie 10/10.
They didn't even do any better. Everything is very fine. There is no worse thing at all.
The Incredibles is a great movie about a family of superheroes. Edna Mode is the breakout star though every character is great. Recommended for everyone.Personal Enjoyment Score (IMDb): 10/10
Movie Score (LetterBoxd): 9/10
4/4The Incredibles feels as if it goes out of it's way to go against every superhero movie stereotype in the books. It's a completely original world with great characters, dialogue, and animated action. It stands out against so many other family films because it is one of the few that actually appeals to the whole family. It won't leave little kids bored half-way through, but it's smart enough to keep the teens and adults satisfied.The movie centers around the Parr family. The common love or dismissal of superheroes is replaced with a society that hates their guts. After an attempted suicide was foiled by Mr. Incredible, superheroes were outlawed. Then it cuts to him as a family man. His kids and wife (former super 'Elasta-Girl) have superpowers, and after 15 years of leading a 'normal life', he has a compulsive need to sneak out at night to preform heroics.Instead of studying only one superhero, it gives adequate screen time and attention to each member of the Parr family. Each member of the family has their own powers and balances each other out in the action. The chemistry between the characters alternates between trying to preform heroics, and well... typical family squabbling. The way The Incredibles depicts the ultimate family super-team side as well as the typical American family side is very clever.Pixar made a movie that will shake the foundations of its rival studios. Their keaner eye for quality and tried-and-true conflict style has carried them for more than 20 years. They have had their downs, and they have had their greats, but The Incredibles is one for the ages.
Maybe 10/10 is a bit exaggerated. However, I watched this movie in 2018 - 14 years after its release. Still, I think this is the best superhero movie I have watched in a long long time. Now just imagine how incredible this must have been 14 years ago. In short, The Incredibles (2004) is an excellent promo for the 2018 movie. :)
This movie is very important to me in the first movie I watched the movie then I was 7 years old I went with my mother. I can not look at it very objectively, but my score is 10 and I will always have a very precious place in my life
'The Incredibles (2004)' is a masterclass in character, always putting its central family in front of its superb superhero action. That action is often somewhat counter-intuitively but cleverly conveyed using the tropes and language of the spy genre, giving the movie a decidedly 60s flavour in the process. The piece is a much more mature affair than you might expect, being a family film in every sense of the word - a movie suitable for kids as opposed to one made for them. It is nuanced, affecting and will actually pay off more for the older members of its audience. It plays like a live-action picture with the world's most convincing special effects, since they're rendered exactly like the rest of the flick, and some of the most convincing characters, too. What makes the film so fantastic is that it's genuinely entertaining all the way through. It's properly funny, intriguing, suspenseful, emotionally impactful and exciting. What's so impressive is that it easily rises to the top of its genre, standing amongst the best of its peers (and even, in itself, commenting on them), despite being released when that very same genre was still in its infancy. It stands tall as apparent 'kid' fare that's far more mature than most 'adult' - or, at least, 'teen' - stuff being produced even today (over ten years after its release). It's effortlessly enjoyable and wonderfully conceived. Really, it's just incredible. 9/10
The story is great, but I do think that one more rewrite could've made it better. Why? There's not enough Elastigirl, Dash and Violet. It's called 'The Incredibles' and yet the rest of the family is missing from the film's second act. I still enjoyed it though.
Saw this when I was 10 Years Old back in late 2004 & bloody loved it from the get go! So much so, me & my family seen it 3 times!! It was simply amazing!!The story-line is simply great & epic! It follows Bob Par as a super strength hero saving people lives among others including his wife, Elastagirl! They all get out lawed by the public who are too fickle & ungrateful to understand there goals in saving the world & protecting the innocent. So 15 years on we see Bob & his now family with Violet & Dash, both also born with powers living a normal life, but Bob simply can't get away from his hero lifestyle so he & his best mate Frozone secretly save lives & continue to fight crime, but a past fanboy, Syndrome wants vengeance from Mr. Incredible!The film was just epic in every aspect! It was dark, funny, raw & simply one of the best films Pixar have ever made! I even recall having a crush on Violet when I was younger after seeing this film! It really does remind me of my childhood & basically the older days back in the early 00's which was a great time to grow, especially when watching films like this one that never ever seem to get old or boring & can be watched over & over again!Overall this film gains a rare but strong & solid, 10/10!Classic film! Go watch it!
Two formerly highly idolized superheroes, Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl, are now forced to stay undercover along with their three children and live a life as normal as can be to not raise suspicion towards them. However, the task is not that easy for Mr. Incredible and the wish to regain his previous fame is high. Hiding it from his family, he starts to accept new missions from an unknown source. 
The Incredibles was one of the very first movies I went to see in the cinema and that I remember well. Though I was only six years old, I still enjoyed it very much. But the most striking aspect for me is that rewatching it fourteen years later still sparks in me the same joy and interest I had the first time, and I think that is one of the movie's main strength. Indeed, it has 'aged' very well and remains up to date, funny and endearing regardless of time passing. The plot is simple and resembles that of a Marvel comic, but it differentiates itself through its characters and its animation. Indeed, first, the characters are very relatable (parents can relate to the 'mid-life' crisis of Mr. Incredible, children can relate to Violet's insecurities or Dash's hyperactivity) and endearing, and they all have very clear personalities which makes the viewer want to care for them. Second, the animation for a 2004 is amazing and it is easy to actually forget that it is an animated movie thanks to the smoothness of the images.
Overall, The Incredibles is therefore a very enjoyable animated movie, be it for children, teens, or adults, and you will definitely smile a lot when it ends. I am very excited to see how the second one will turn out.
The Incredibles is possibly my favorite Pixar movie. I love the animation, I love the voice work, I love the humor, I love the story - it's just a lot of fun. Watching this movie not only entertains me, but it also, strangely, makes me want to be a better person.
I have seen this movie at least twice before but it has been a while so I decided to watch again in anticipation for the upcoming sequel. And it's just an absolute pleasure ! I'm not even aware that I'm watching an animated movie, the drama, the action, the humour, the thrill... it's all as good as a regular film.Sure there are some cliches and predictable elements but it doesn't bother me a bit. It's like music, you can reuse the same notes over and over, but it's how you put them together that makes a difference. If you haven't watched this, try it, even if you're not into animated movies. This is what I call cinematic art that leaves the viewer wanting more. Can't wait to watch The Incredibles 2 soon!
Before The Incredibles, Pixar made films like Toy Story, A Bugs Life and Monsters Inc. They've always avoided human focused storylines because of the lack of the technology. But they have got the animation down to perfection here from the facial expressions and character movements. The textures of hair and muscle movements are also a great achievement. Looking back today the animation still looks impressive. There are so many films it pays homage to but to great effect. It's more of a satire of films than a spoof. It mostly deals with comic book films like Fantastic 4 but it actually works as its own movie. It also has a 60s Bond espionage feel to it. These heroes do their work in the shadows like secret agents, our lead character is cool and charismatic and the villain lives in a Volcano. Like every Pixar film before it, it's a cleverly written film because it's not just aimed at kids. It deals with subjects like political commentary, the mundane restraints of work life and letting yourself go. It's a film about family, redemption, rejection and consequences. Some films feel forced whenever they tackle social subjects but the writers manage to balance all of these subjects that work well within the story. The action scenes are really exciting and inventive. There are so many subtle comedic moments and there are some heartfelt ones too. It takes so many risks and it's a surprise to see some of the darker scenes make it into the film. Voice actors Craig T Nelson, Brad Bird, Holly Hunter and Samuel L Jackson each give memorable performances and the exciting music score by Michael Giacchino elevates the action scenes to another level. Stan Lee once said it was the best superhero film he's ever seen, and he wasn't wrong. It puts a lot of superhero films to shame.
Ok, get this: Superheroes are forced to live as normal people (for 15 years!!), and then surface again because a superhero wannabe terminates superheroes. Yawn, did nothing for me!
Pixar are known for making great animated movies such as toy story, but this is definitely up there with toy story. Put aside the animation, it is like a proper film. It is funny, full of action and for the whole family, even if you don't like superheroes.The story line is great and I was so happy when Samuel l Jackson was in it (aka nick fury IN MARVEL I LOVE MARVEK). It felt like a proper film, Pixar's speciality. If you haven't seen it yet, I suggest watching it because it is for everyone!

**** *YEAR_2010

Since Toy Story 3 is in theatres, it's rather knee-jerk to compare Despicable Me to the animation giant. But you shouldn't. Despicable Me doesn't have the heavy, dark tones of the final Toy Story and, therefore, is probably better suited to smaller children. As with the best family films, though, adults will love this story as much - if not more - than their little ones.And here's why. It is incredibly rare to see a single dad portrayed in such a positive light. While Gru has an admittedly 'bad' vocation, there are unbelievably sweet moments between him and the three children, probably aided by the juxtaposition of tiny girls to a large, 'bad' guy.The nepotistic supporting cast from Saturday Night Live (even Jack McBrayer works for Tina Fey) is fantastic. One pleasant surprise was from Gru's minions: they did not steal the show. Not that they should've- the little yellow guys were funny and entertaining, but one would expect from the previews they would ultimately be the best part of the film... and I'm happy to report that wasn't true.Despicable Me is LOL funny throughout, warm, goofy, and will not disappoint. I'd say you're a despicable parent if you don't take your kids to see it immediately.
I love this movie! It was so adorable, so charming & the writing was absolutely terrific! I love the animation & the characters (including the minions) were all fantastic! A MUST WATCH!
When one pyramid of Egypt is stolen, the despicable suburban villain Gru feels frustrated since he considers himself the greatest criminal mind ever. However he plans to steal the moon, in the greatest heist of history, with the support of the evil Dr. Nefario and his army of minions. Gru intends to hire a loan in the Bank of Evil (former Lehman Brothers) to build a rocket and steal the shrink weapon to reduce the size of the moon. But the banker Mr. Perkins intends to invest in the young Vector, who actually had stolen the pyramid. When Gru robs the shrink weapon, Vector steals it from him and kept the weapon in his impenetrable fortress that is protected by state of art security system. Gru sees that the orphans Margo, Edith and Agnes from Miss Hattie's Home for Girls have full access to Vector's house to sell cookies. Gru plots a scheme, adopting the three girls to use them to recover the shrink weapon from Vector. But the three little girls change the behavior of Gru and his minions.'Despicable Me' is a sort of contemporary version of the Charles Dickens' classic novel 'A Christmas Carol' and a highly entertaining animation with one of the sweetest villain ever, three adorable little girls and a group of adorable minions. The story is not corny but human, and the jokes with Bill Gates that is the source of inspiration of the nerd Vector and with the investment banking Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. that declared bankruptcy in 2008 and affected the lives of small private investors are witty. In the end, Gru is not the criminal mastermind that he supposed to be. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): 'Meu Malvado Favorito' ('My Favorite Meanie')
Despicable Me's teasers and trailers seemed to represent a few different movies, and that's reflected by the general segregation of comedy styles that the film begins with. At the film's start, Gru (Steve Carrell) handles the dark comedy, the trio of orphans get the cutesy comedy, and the minions handle the slapstick. As the film progresses, though, these lines begin to blur, building to a strong emotional finale and a satisfyingly complete tale. (This is one of those rare non-Pixar animated films that doesn't seem destined for sequel-dom.)The tale of rival villains isn't terribly original. Nor is the idea of a villain having his heart melted by adorable children. But the way Despicable Me blends these two ideas is just fantastic. There's humor, action, and heart -- what more could you want from an animated film?Also notable is the way the star-studded voice cast handles their characters. While there are a ton of big names filling out the roster, most of them use accents which render them familiar but not too much so. It's a different route than many animated films take, and it's refreshing. Julie Andrews and Steve Carrell especially do well at straddling the line between their trademark voices and their characters' accents. The voice that steals the movie, however, is the adorable Elsie Fisher as Agnes. Almost every line gets either a laugh or an 'Aw...' (On a related note, I love that the orphan girls are named Edith, Margo, and Agnes. I love old names for young people.)The plot has enough twists and turns to keep things interesting, and the antics of the minions provide a nice side of fun to the proceedings. Also, their reaching contest during the credits is a fun use of 3-D that had the kids in the theater reaching for the screen.Last year was a banner year for animation, and this year seems to be following suit. How to Train Your Dragon amazed, Toy Story 3 is one of the best animated films of all time, and Despicable Me impresses. A very pleasant surprise.
Despicable me is Simply Hilarious. This Movie is not just for kids, Adults are going to enjoy it even more. The youngest girl in it is sooooooo cute. Also the Small yellow minions simply adorable and so funny. The entire hall was laughing through out the movie.The plot is very interesting to keep you engrossed throughout the movie.It is not a very original plot but has the very humorous dialogs and acts.Steve Carell's is SIMPLY amazing, he is funny in a very different way...he is the king of the awkward embarrassing insulting type of comedy. You can't help but remember Steve carell's during some of the dialog deliveries.One of the funniest animation movie. Definitely Worth Watching twice.
First of all, I am real, not one of those big studios planted minions that come to IMDb to talk wonders about their new releases. You can check my history to prove that.Second of all, to make your time worth, let me tell you what kind of movies I like and/or dislike (you know, to see if my taste is compatible with yours).Taking into account only what would be considered 'family friendly movies', Pixar cannot be topped. From Pixar I believe that 'The Incredibles' is its under appreciated best product, although I have a soft spot for 'Finding Nemo' and 'Up' (hey, I agree, 'Toy Story' and 'Monsters Inc.' are awesome!). Their worst effort is without a doubt 'Cars' (I almost don't even like it), but even that is above a lot of other crap from other studios.I like the first 'Shrek', 'Kung-Fu Panda'; found '9' and 'Coraline' a little bit boring (but interesting, both!), and totally dislike 'Shark Tales', 'Planet 51', 'Space Monkeys', 'Surf's Up', the first 'Madagascar' (except for the penguins and the king lemur, lol).In a broader sense, my all time favourite animated movie (although not CGI) is 'The Nightmare Before Christmas'.Enough of that! With that very well established, let me give you my opinion of this movie.It is amazing! It is charming without being corny; hilarious without resorting to stupid pop-culture references; exciting without being overly loud.. and the best thing: it plays like a fable.It is absurd! ... but in a good way. The whole plan is to steal the moon, for crying out loud! How ridiculous could that be? And yet, we are led to root for the evil genius to be able to do just that. The whole thing is so tongue in cheek that you will pee in your pants laughing at the effects of having no moon for a few minutes (it is a quick flash of things, for they are so funny).The movie is incredibly intelligent. The jokes are dead on and VERY imaginative (for example - and this is not a spoiler - pay attention to how they manage to produce light when Dr. Gru and two of his minions are in a ventilation duct at Vector's fortress - just delightful).You will fall in love with his minions, and if you have a soft heart, with the three orphan girls.OH, I almost forgot!! The 3D... this is the best usage of 3D I've seen (excepting 'Avatar', of course) in a movie. There is a roller coaster ride scene that will literally 'tickle your tummy' (like my kids said). For the first three seconds it easily compares to the effects found in 'The Simpsons Ride' at Universal Studios.The action sequences are thrillingly enhanced by the right amount of 3D, and make sure you STAY while the credits roll on. There are some OBVIOUS usage of 3D on those scenes with very funny results. Actually, here's a hint: sit down and enjoy these scenes while the people in the rows in front of you try to exit the theatre; the point of reference they offer will enhance the 3D in such a cool way that it will seem that they will bump into the staircase and the minions protruding from the screen (I suppose that was the intention of these bonus scenes, and boy they nailed it!) All in all, do yourself a favour and go WATCH it... I am sure I will do it again! Cheers!P.S. Be sure to learn a little, tiny bit of Spanish so you can 'get' one of the jokes... my family was the only one laughing like crazies during that scene.. cheers again!
If Warner Brothers and Disney Animation Studios had ever had a baby they might have named it Illumination. The machine behind 'Despicable Me' takes the wacky bits from old school cartoons and applies 21st century animation technology to produce a hip and well articulated masterpiece. From start to finish, the film was absolutely captivating and sophisticated with an engaging narrative and imaginative characters.All of the characters were well-voiced, but I found Jason Segal's 'Victor/Vector' villain particularly inspired. The little yella fellas were uniformly charming and I expect they'll probably have their own aisle in toy stores very soon. Carell's crazy villainy was perfectly tuned, as was Julie Andrews whose new voice adds a delightful note as the Despicable mother. The juvenile vocals brought both sass and sweetness to the story, and Kristen Whiig was smarmy in a distinctly southern way. The humor is rich, with winks at classic cinema like 'Taxi Driver', 'Apollo XIII', and others. The Bank of Evil is staffed by former Lehman brothers execs, and recurring motifs and jokes create a comic continuity that is sustained through the credits. 'Dispicable Me' was my second choice, but now I'm very happy was running a little late this evening.
Despicable Me, the new animated from produced by Chris Melandandri, who also produced Ice Age: The Meltdown and Horton Hears A Who, is one of the summer's stand out movies. Steve Carell, Jason Segel, Miranda Cosgrove, and Russell Brand are perfect actors to lead this at times hilarious, at times tear jerking animated tale. Will Arnett, Kristen Wiig, Danny R. McBride, Julie Andrews and Jermain Clement make for a worthy supporting cast.Gru (voiced by Carell) is a evil genius who only wants to win the affection of his cold-hearted mother (voiced by Andrews), something he has NEVER had. His only friends are Dr. Nefario, a aging scientist (voiced by Brand), and his army of minions (voiced by directors Peiere Coffin and Chris Reneud, and Jermain Clement), Twinky like creatures with both one and two eyes, it varies. When a mysterious newcomer named Vector (voiced by Segal) steals the Great Pyrimid of Giza, Gru decides to pull off the greatest heist EVER: stealing the moon! Then, three orphan girls, Margo (voiced by Cosgrove), Edith, and Agnes (both voiced by newcomers who names I don't know.) The three of them don't hit it off with Gru instantly, but they see him as the first real parent they've ever had. Gru slowly begins to warm up to the girls, and they're interactions make for some truly heartfelt, and also hilarious moments. Case in point:Edith: Are these beds old bombs? Gru: Yes. But, they are very old and highly unlikely to blow up. Try not to toss and turn.Despicable Me pulls off something almost unheard of: a film that is enjoyable for both parents and children that does NOT involve humor centered around bodily functions, or violence. Final grade: A Plus infinite number of times!
DESPICABLE ME is not an animated feature. It is a flat-out feature-length cartoon, a rare bird in the field, and the first really successful one since THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE. If anything, it's better.Animated features are typically fantasies, taking us to places and stories that cannot be filmed in live action. They can be dramatic, fantastic, inspirational, terrifying, all the range of emotions. Cartoons are different. Cartoons inhabit a universe that is a cross between Krazy Kat and the Keystone Kops. Walk off a cliff and you don't fall until you notice. Fall a thousand yards and hit the ground and you wheeze like an accordion until the next scene, when you're fine. Cartoons are silly.And this one is very very silly, from Steve Carell's indecisively Eastern European-voiced Grue to Julie's Andrews who, as his mom, sounds like Beaky Buzzard's mother in Bugs Bunny shorts, to the seemingly indistinguishable minions who talk like Chip and Dale on helium -- Grue knows all their names. A modern supervillain has to have people skills.The gags are all spot on in relevance and impeccably timed. The plot advances at a good clip and even the heartwarming aspects of the plot never descend into mawkishness -- the little girls whom Grue adopts to advance his plan to steal the Moon are endearing but frequently annoying.I saw the 3-D version and the question arises, should you spend the extra money to see it in 3-D? I don't think so -- but then I am happy looking at stuff in black and white and even silent films. You may get a little more out of the 3-D version, particularly the credit extras. But that's up to you. See it in whatever form you like, but see it.
What a year it has been for animated films. So far in 2010 we have had three great films from three rival studios. DreamWorks kicked things off with the surprise sleeper hit How to Train Your Dragon and animation juggernaut Pixar countered with the hotly anticipated Toy Story 3. Now Universal's Illumination Entertainment has released the audaciously titled Despicable Me and while it may be the 'worst' of the trio, it is certainly the most purely entertaining.The strengths of Despicable Me lie within veins commonly found in animated features, but his entry simply utilizes them extremely effectively. Along with jumping on the 3-D bandwagon (my theatre was screening it in normal dimensions) Despicable Me boasts an impressive voice cast, a ploy first used with Robin Williams way back in the days of traditional days of animation with Aladdin, superbly executed slapstick and what I will call the sidekick factor. Whether cute or wisecracking, you would be hard-pressed to find a film in this medium that does not employ this tactic. Even so called 'art-house' animated pictures like WALL-E follow the trend (in fact, that particular film contains two such supporting characters) and Despicable Me ups the ante and adopts thousands.The villainous central character of Gru (voiced my Steve Carell) operates his evil lair with the aid of a multitude of adorable little yellow workers, and along with their 'awwwee' factor, are the subject of a healthy portion of the aforementioned slapstick. Nestled in between the easy laughs however is ample heart and if you are prone to do so, you may very well shed a tear or two. This warmth is generated by three orphan girls, Margo, Edith and the doe-eyed Agnes, but perhaps I'm getting ahead of myself. All Gru has ever wanted is to be accepted, and what better way to achieve that goal than by resorting to supervillainy. After a fresh- faced rival villain Vector (Jason Segel) outdoes Gru by stealing a pyramid from Egypt, he devises a plan to obtain a shrink-ray from a government testing facility and use that technology to shrink, and then steal the moon. Things do not go according to plan after Vector steals the shrink-ray right out of Gru's spindly clutches. What's a supervillain to do? Devise another plan of course, this time using the three aforementioned orphans to infiltrate Vector's lair by selling cookies. It's all very complicated in writing but works very well on screen.Steve Carell does an admirable job in the lead voice role, and his Russian accent helps us to forget it is an A-list star nestled behind the animation. Russell Brand gives an unrecognizable performance as Dr. Nefario, the brains behind Gru's operation, and Kristen Wiig is hilarious as the head of the orphanage. The most disappointing is certainly the great Jason Segel whose underwritten character fails him as does his voice. Half of the allure of Segel is his physical presence and that is neutered in a voice-only role. While the physical humour will no doubt please the kids, there is perhaps even more for adults and if a movie is able to make me double over in the isle, then it must be doing something right. With Shrek Forever After being the one misstep for this medium, I look enthusiastically forward to the remainder of the year. What I know for certain is I (and the audience I joined) had an absolute blast with this flick, that is despicable in name only.Catch all the latest movie news and reviews at http://playeraffinity.com/movies.html
As a reviewer mentioned, this year is set to be a great year of animated films, much like the previous two years. This is proved with Pixar's unmatched (touching wood) winning streak and Dreamworks' surprise turn 'How To Train Your Dragon', which proceeds to continue the ever- increasing 'golden years' of computer-animated films. Universal's 'Despicable Me' is yet another gem in an already quite-heavy bag of diamonds.With nice direction, the filmmakers were able to combine two quite unoriginal plots into one with ease and without force, and they managed to add wit, charm and smart humor to it as well. Not to mention heart. I have never heard of the filmmakers before, but this is a heck of a debut from two first-time animated film directors. The humor is also not too over the top, yet utterly hilarious and ingenious when they pop up. Most of the jokes had the entire audience rolling in the aisles. The three girls end up being adorable and lovable characters, as per the main character/protagonist/villain, whom you can't help but cheer on and care for, no matter what he does. Steve Carell is spot-on as Gru and he makes the role funnier than it should be, I mean his voice and humorous style is there behind the funny accent. And what Gru plots and does is beyond ridiculous and far too funny to be deemed 'serious' by any cynic. Some hilarious supporting characters round out the primary cast, most notably Gru's assistant Dr. Nefarious played by Russell Brand, and I could not believe Julie Andrews was Gru's mother, I hardly recognized her voice at all! Jason Segel was hilarious as Gru's vain nemesis Vector. And let's not forget the utterly adorable and hilarious minions and their wacky antics.Technical wise, the animation is gorgeous, bright and nicely rendered with a deft touch of simplicity to it, causing it to be not too overly glossy and polished. This makes the animation look less artificial and more fluid, and this especially shows when it comes to the practical jokes. The music score is just wonderful and suits the moods of the film as they come along. The 3D is great and used quite a number of times in the movie during many effect-driven scenes, which is very impressive considering the poor up-conversion to 3D of MANY movies of late.Overall, this animated film is a great fun time for the kids and family to see, and even some teens will get many laughs out of it as well. This is a very adorable film, full of charm and heart, and with a funny and lighthearted storyline, and may the powers that be reward this at the box office, if the mediocre 'Eclipse' isn't taking all of its viewers already. Looks like Universal's animation days are returning.Entertainment value: 10/10Overall: 7.5/10
'Now, the rest of the plan is simple. I fly to the moon. I shrink the moon. I grab the moon. I sit on the toilet.'Any animated movie that was released during 2010 is inevitably going to be compared to Toy Story 3, so let's get that out of the way, first. No, Despicable Me is not 'better' than Toy Story 3. On an emotional and story-telling level, it's not nearly as profound or involving. But Despicable Me isn't trying to be profound, it's aiming for amusement and entertainment. And on those two fronts, Dreamworks has a definite success on their hands.My favorite thing about Despicable Me is how humorous it is. This is seriously the funniest animated movie that I've seen in quite a while. It has the expected amount of jokes that will give kids (and older people, too) the giggles, as well as lots of comedy that only the grown-up crowd will appreciate. It's fun to see what will pop up next (keep your eyes open for a particularly amusing reference to a particularly un-amusing scene in The Godfather).Despicable Me is also a vivid, bright movie that's pleasing to the eye in all the right ways. The character designs are stylized and fun, the soundtrack is a nice change of pace for this kind of film, and the pacing is excellent, with nary a dull stretch. The voice talent is great, but I will admit that most of them were pretty much unrecognizable. I wouldn't have known that Jason Segel, Kristin Wiig, Russell Brand, Julie Andrews, or Will Arnett were even involved, if not for the credits and the fact that I had read about them beforehand. Steve Carell and Jack McBrayer (in a small but hilarious part) are really the only voices that are easily recognizable. That's not a criticism, just an observation. So yeah, it's pretty clear that I liked this movie a lot. It reminds me most of Monsters, Inc. (a movie I absolutely love) in the way that it combines sweetness and humor in a manner that's never cloying or annoying. Watch it with your kids, watch it with your friends, watch it with your significant other, or watch it by yourself. You'll laugh, you'll cheer, you'll say 'awwww', and you'll fall in love with Agnes, Edith, and Margo even faster than Gru does.
I was pretty surprised by the quality of this film. As usual, the animation was stunning, but I digress. What kids' flick isn't on par with the animation now-a-days, aside maybe the few nobodys that no one ever cares for. Disney and Dreamworks are no longer the only real competition. The emotion in the film is definitely its strongest suit, for you'll probably find yourself very touched by these characters by the end of the movie. This makes up for the rather simple story actually, one you probably have seen in some cartoon show somewhere.The voice acting was pretty on spot, with Steve Carell Russel Brand, and Jason Segal. And for the record this is probably the only production starring Miranda Cosgrove that I actually respect. The only other I have to knit pick about is perhaps the score; not the most stunning I've ever heard, but it holds my attention rather well. So definitely check this film out, because it's worth it.
I was fortunate to get free tickets to see this movie in 3d over the weekend. I only went because it was free, I really was not excited, but it ended up surprising me and I really enjoyed it. The people I saw the movie with were from ages 6 to 31, male and female, and we ALL thought the movie was great!!There was a lot of lol moments, the theatre was packed, and everyone in the audience seemed to enjoy themselves. The story was cute and enjoyable for children as well as adults. It had a good message too, which makes it worth your time to go see. I loved watching this film in 3d! I think the movie would be good without 3d, but if you are going to spend the money to watch it, spend the 3 extra dollars and see it in 3d. It was worth it.This film is AWESOME and I would recommend it to everyone!!!
This was a fantastic movie. My son and I loved it. We saw the 2d version and i'm curious as to how good the 3D version is since there were many scenes that would have been ideal for 3D. I recommend that you also watch the end credits, especially if you're viewing the 3D version. Gru isn't a very outgoing person as far as showing affection but as you watch the movie you will understand as to why he is this way. The hyperness of the little girls is pretty accurate as any parent will testify too. There is a scene at the amusement park involving a stuffed unicorn that many parents can probably relate to and wish that they could have delt with it in the same was that Gru did. I would recommend this movie for everyone to see.
Never one to pass up a good cinematic curmudgeon, maybe I was predisposed to enjoy Universal's 'Despicable Me.' I mean, when it comes to off-brand animated entertainment, ass-kicking Pandas and pet Dragons only take me so far—It wasn't until Russian supervillian Gru (Steve Carell) put his adopted children to bed in the hollowed-out casings of 'probably' inactive bombshells that I finally felt like the target audience.Ever since animation studios began better emulating Pixar's secret sauce, they've met with varying degrees of success in combining raw, gooey emotion with their signature lighthearted recipes. 'Despicable Me' grapples with it, and though it may be one of the most consistent examples yet, it's still about as nuanced a dish as macaroni and cheese — which, fortunately for me, I've never outgrown.However, of the two conflicting senses of humor at play, there is one I absolutely have outgrown. Rarely has a family film so distinctly set aside its kids' humor from its more mature fare; In 'Despicable Me,' it's a difference personified. Gru's subterranean lair is crawling with his 'minions,' little, yellow jellybean-like creatures who make butt jokes and slap each other around. They're cute purely for the sake of being cute (in effect, a sort of artificial cuteness) and anytime they're on screen, the comparable intellect of the rest of the film is suffocated by indecipherable high-pitched chatter and broad gags that make vaudeville look like the Divine Comedy.The good news is that the minions are never on screen for particularly long, and there are a few laughs to be had at their expense when they become the unfortunate casualties of Gru's experiments. Conversely, most of film's jokes have an avant-garde sensibility that jived better with me; Gru must acquire a loan from the 'Bank of Evil' in order to fund his diabolical scheme to shrink and steal the moon. Coupled with a 'Spy vs. Spy'-esquire kinetic goofiness, it still averages out to be a fairly funny film.No surprise, a lot of upper-echelon voice talent is involved, and I remember being impressed months ago at the wall of names that played after the teaser-trailer. Admittedly, I haven't been the biggest fan of Carell's work since he left 'The Daily Show' back in 2005, but he doesn't distract as Gru. He plays well off of a cast eerily similar to that of 'Forgetting Sarah Marshall:' Jason Segel as his nemesis, Vector (who is, interestingly, another supervillian —'Despicable Me' doesn't have a hero); Russell Brand as an elderly inventor by the name of Dr. Nefario; Kristin Wiig as the proprietor of the orphanage from which Gru adopts three young girls in a ploy to infiltrate Vector's fortress.But perhaps most interestingly, 'Despicable Me' has some of the most easily-missed cameos in the history of animation. Danny McBride plays Gru's neighbor with a line and a half of dialogue, and Jemaine Clement from HBO's 'Flight of the Conchords' (apparently) voices one of the minions. Other than stacking the deck as an advertising vehicle, it seems pointless to pay such funny people for such inconsequential roles.But I think their presence signifies, if nothing else, that 'Despicable Me' is a project worth being attached to. It may fall back on certain cyclical annoying tendencies, catering occasionally to lowest-common-denominator comedy (the avoidance of which even the best emulation of Pixar hasn't managed), but the world of the film is comically rich, and no amount of disposable, annoying minions can wreck that — though not from lack of trying. The heart of the story, Gru coming to begrudgingly love his adopted daughters, may not win any prizes for revolutionary storytelling, but it's well executed and 'cute' in a legitimate way.As something of an amateur curmudgeon myself, please disregard my smile.
Oh Dear! This is fine you children 8 and under. However, for anyone older the plot is highly predictable, the characterisation belaboured and most of the jokes purile in the extreme. Comparisons with similar recent offerings (UP, Toy Story 3, How to Tame your Dragon) are inevitable and DM does not compare well on any measure you care to use. Might be worth buying the DVD to keep young kids occupied for 90 minutes when it's raining, but there are far better animated films out there that will entertain you better and will be worth a second or third showing.Dadstheman
I am simply baffled by the amount of (over-the-top) praise this film has received! It is ludicrous! Despicable Me is an average movie, nothing more (don't be fooled by the critics) nothing less.DM is a cute film. The lush blending of colors is truly eye-popping; however, the animation isn't necessarily top-notch! I couldn't help but compare the animation to that of Toy Story 3 and feel disappointed! However, the 3D is truly state of the art! (Make sure you stay during the credits in order to be blown away!) The film orbits around Gru, the 2nd greatest criminal in the world, who wants to perform the crime of the century; steal the moon! He is helped by his loyal legion of (VERY adorable) minions who are the main generators of laughs through-out the film! The film-maker found a brilliant way to make the audience fall for the evil master-mind; imposing upon him the task of taking care of the 3 orphans.Some jokes are a big success, while others are tired out gags that fall flat on their faces. Their isn't much focus on plot here, but , let's cut tot the chase, the only people who know how to mix plot with great emotional core is Pixar! (It goes without saying, anyways). In other words, don't walk into the theater expecting a masterpiece.)Several people have enjoyed this film - including me- but I didn't find anything here worth of excessive praise. A kid sitting next to me kept on jumping in his seat,laughing hysterically; he truly enjoyed it and was captivated by it. I, perhaps, enjoyed watching the film succeed in making kids laugh rather than watching the film itself...
If you are a fan of animated movies, then this year is one of the best years of your life. 'Despicable Me' is a movie that you can watch all over again without getting tired of it. It has many laughs, and memorable characters. The only problem of this movie is that the story is just simple but what makes this movie great besides the laughs is the heart. It is cute, entertaining, and amusing. Non-Pixar animated studios has finally know how to make a great animated movie.The story is just simple it's not bad it's just simple that makes the movie feel short and small. But the runtime and scale doesn't matter. The important ingredient of animated movies are the jokes. The jokes were non-stop laughter especially the yellow minions. The characters are crazy looking (except Gru's daughters). The music sounded like James Bond music. Steve Carrel's voice acting works for Gru but the biggest prize goes to Russel Brand changing his voice for Dr. Nefario.What makes 'Despicable Me' special is the heart. The movie has plenty of heart and laughter. It's not the best animated movie of the year though. It's a nice adorable movie where both kids and adult will love. Will this be a classic? Almost.
I probably don't need to explain that villainous Gru, annoyed that rival Vector is in the process of outvillaining him, adopts 3 orphan girls as part of a masterplan to regain the ascendancy, only to find that the girls turn him into a softie.This CGI 3D animated feature is daft, charming, and very funny. It manages to have its cake and eat it, the cake in question being real vs fantasy - Gru lives in a variation of a suburban house, drives his villainmobile around suburban streets and, in many ways, lives a completely conventional life, but he also freeze-rays people in the coffee shop, has an enormous secret laboratory under his house, and is assisted by a host of small yellow non-human minions.The plot serves two purposes. It is a vehicle on which to hang a number of gags (most of which greatly pleased the young audience in the cinema - there is no question that this movie works very well with its target audience). And it delivers a gently sentimental message in a fairly non-glutinous way.The visuals are very good. Character design is excellent, especially the girls and the minions. Voice characterisation is solid with, again, the girls and the minions standing out, although Steve Carell's Germanic/Russian Gru is also good fun. The 3D is occasionally effective but mostly irrelevant, although the end credits sequence, where various minions vie with each other to get closest to the camera, is well done and very funny.
Living up to the advertising buzz DESPICABLE ME is absolutely a hoot. Steve Carell voices Gru, a bumbling egotistical villain with life long plans of stealing the moon. Gru's personal weapons specialist Dr. Nefario(Russell Brand)creates a shrink-ray so the reflective orb can be shrunk and brought back to earth. But as Gru and his diminutive little yellow pill-shaped helpers called Minions can get the rocket assembled and ready for blast off...three little orphans Margo(Miranda Cosgrove), Agnes(Elsie Fisher)and Edith(Dana Gaier)enter his life. The biggest heist in the history of the world is ready to come about and the devious Gru discovers he has a heart with a soft spot.I will probably never be a Carell fan, but stealing the show are the gibberish spouting Minions. After all they were a huge part of the movie's marketing campaign. Most of their voices were supplied by one Pierre Coffin. Also in support are the voices of: Jason Segel, Will Arnett, Rob Huebel and Chris Renaud. This film is heartwarming as it is humorous.
This cartoon once again proves that you are not afraid to tell old stories, you only need to have an old heart. What touches people is the little fun inside, the little cuteness, the little loneliness, and everyone under the hard exterior desires a warm heart. It's really far better than toy3.
Agnes: Oh, my gosh look at the fluffy unicornAgnes: He's so fluffy, I'm gonna die!Despicable me is famous for one thing. It's Minions. I recall watching this in 2010 and I think I watched this movie around 12 times already so I think I got used to all the jokes around it so I can only giggle to it rather than laughing out so hard.Despicable Me is about a villain wanting to scheme the most evil plan known to man.That is stealing the moon but the lack of budget and the bank declining on him makes it hard to do. So he steals a shrink ray as part of the plan but gets stolen by a younger villain in the name of vector. He tries to steal it back but fails and decides to adopt 3 cute orphans to pretend to sell cookies and help him steal it back. He succeeds but the only thing left is what to with the orphans.He is now stuck with them but some how the orphans are changing him to be a nicer person.The movie is really funny and enjoyable for the children,teens and adults alike. Watch it. 4/5
I'm a girl who loves kids movies. Especially recently. They have been done very well, so that adults (such as myself) can be thoroughly entertained. I take no children, just my close friends and we giggle like we are five years old again. When I first saw a preview for Despicable Me, I was very on the fence... it looked like it could be borderline stupid, and I am very poor so I don't take a gamble on movies that look even borderline stupid to me. However, more previews came out and, like the rest of the world, I became obsessed over the cute yellow minions, and checked it out further. Upon seeing several of my favorite's among the voice talents of the movie, it became my mission to see this movie, ASAP. I found out that my town had a midnight showing of it, and me and my oh-so-giggly best friend went to see it. If you are anything like me, it will make you snort with laughter, aww at the cuteness, and even cry- out of laughter, happiness, and sadness. Steve Carell does a FANTASTIC job voicing Gru. The character goes through an apparent transformation because of the three little girls. Jason Segel's voice makes for a wonderful nerdy villain. Russel Brand plays an entirely different type of character than normal (of course I am basing his 'normal' on Forgetting Sarah Marshall and Get Him To The Greek, in which he plays the same character, so there's not much to compare him to...) and it works for him.As for the animation, this movie is DEFINITELY worthy of paying the extra 3D fee... I get mad when I pay more to see a movie in 3D and then there is hardly any out-of-the-screen action. Gru's nose, for one, is ALWAYS popping out of the frame when he is facing the audience. Arms pop out, faces, the tip of the rocket was out so far that my friend and I actually reached up to touch it. Absolutely fantastic 3D animation.And if you have the capability, you should really download the Best Buy Movie Mode app for your iPhone or Android phone... the end credits feature the minions speaking incomprehensibly... but the app translates for you and there are some definitely quotable lines. My friend and I were the only ones cracking up during it because we were the only ones looking at it.All in all, this was a fantastic movie. Definitely worth seeing. Twilight watch out, because your #1 Box Office Status is going away after this weekend... I can tell...
The problem with animated family fare is the bar is set very high by cable TV. There is a ton of great humorous animated shows out there--Penguins of Madagascar, Phineas and Ferb, Fairly Odd Parents, Dexter's Lab, Powerpuff Girls, SpongeBob...just to name a few. Additionally, Pixar can do no wrong. So when Hollywood invites America's families to drop $40 at the multiplex to watch a cartoon, they'd better bring it strong, and in my opinion, Despicable Me didn't deliver. Yes, it was mildly entertaining and the audience seemed to enjoy it, but overall it just kind of bored me. Like so many movies nowadays, it seems like we've already seen every funny bit in the previews. What bothered me the most however is absolutely EVERYTHING in this movie seems to be derived from something else or is a cheap imitation. Dr Gru talks like the kid from Dexters Lab and looks like Monty Burns. His nemesis looks like Dexter's nemesis Mandark. The minions all sound like Wall-E. So bottom line, you and your family won't storm out of the theater and demand your money back, but you would probably find more innovative animated humor at home on your TV.
This was a lovely movie because it did not attempt to blur the line between adult humor and entertaining the kids. It was sweet and heartwarming and keep in mind, this is coming from a grumpy 60 year old who cannot stand to be around little children. I went because I thought the title was clever and catchy and I enjoy the 3D. It was so refreshing to not have to sit through potty humor, fart jokes (there was only one) and double entendres that everyone hopes will sail over the kiddies' heads. It was funny, sweet and thoroughly enjoyable without being sappy or overly sentimental. Not great but definitely a lovely, lighthearted movie meant for the kids.
Gru(Steve Carell) is the most popular super villain out there, he looks like a cross between Lex Luther and Dr. Evil. He is at the top of his game, is planing is biggest heist to date, to steel a shrink ray, and get funding to build a rocket, fly into space, and shrink the moon, and steel it. With the help of his little yellow minions. But his plans quickly go awry, when another super villain wanna be named Vector(Jason Segel) steels the shrink ray from him, and just as Gru is smart, but Vector proves to be one step ahead of him. But he soon finds out that Vector has a weakness for cookies, when he sees three orphan girls sell him cookies. Gru decides to adopt the three girls, in hopes the will help him steel the shrink ray back, but will the plan go through? The animation is almost up there with the shreks and the toy story's. This film was funny, Steve Carell is memorable as the voice of Gru, not just the voice, but the animators try to mimic Steve Carells style of comedy. Jason Segel is also good. Despicable Me is for the whole family.
This is a CGI movie for kids and adults, where the plot is mainly from a villain's point of view. Gru(Gru) who is the bad guy or as bad as these CGI movies for kids and adults go. The rivalry between the villains is done well and the jokes are clean and yet fun. All the little things that happen in the background is fun to watch as well and just about everything is played out very well. I also enjoyed the mischievous music that is constantly played in this movie. It's also cute, charming and touching at times without being too cheesy, the minions was also one of the best part about this movie.7.6/10
Despicable Me is a wonderfully enjoyable yet totally forgettable animated feature from Universal Pictures that follows an eerie criminal mastermind as he works to become the greatest, most despicable villain in the world. The film, starring the voice of Steve Carell as Gru, a criminal intent on executing the largest heist in the history of the world, is often funny, always entertaining, but unfortunately much more forgettable than the animated films it goes against (see Toy Story 3 and How to Train Your Dragon). Regardless, for young kids or an adult audience alike, it provides enough wonderful visuals and comedy to keep you fully competent for it's fast paced 95-minute run time.Despicable Me opens and ends with Gru, an awkward individual dressed in all black with a pointy nose, bald head, skinny legs, and fat body. He, much like the other characters in the film, features characteristics that we don't often see in animated features. No one necessarily looks human, but in the age when apparently we're able to build shrink rays, spaceships, and squid launchers, who knows what mankind will look in the making.When Gru meets Vector, the criminal most famous for stealing a pyramid in Egypt, the film immediately becomes a competition of criminal minds, a battle for the bigger idea, and a race to outwit the other individual. It's only when Gru adopts three young girls, originally planned as bait to outwit is sympathetic suitor, that the film goes from funny and action oriented to sappy and heartwarming.There's absolutely nothing bad about Despicable Me from a film-making standpoint. I was very much impressed by the visuals, the design, and the overall flow of the script. I guess the reason the film was somewhat forgettable for me, is the fact that it was such a lighthearted piece of entertainment, with characters that exited my head just as easy as they entered into it. With films like Toy Story 3, we're brought back to our childhood with toys, muppets, and mascots that we remember from our yesteryears. With How to Train Your Dragon, we're transferred into a world of magical, mystical dragons. With Despicable Me, we're still in the States, but the inventions we're capable of coming up with are just a bit more complex.Overall, I recommend Despicable Me for what it is, a lighthearted, funny, fantastic looking animated feature. Is it the best animated feature I've seen? No. But in the age of the Alpha & Omega's and the Alvin and the Chipmunks, trust me, you could do a whole lot worse.Michael Buffa Editor, Popcorn Jury http://www.popcornjury.com
The second half of the summer movie season is now in full swing and I couldn't be happier. The first half of this summer has been downright infuriating with half-baked sequels and unnecessary 80s TV show adaptations that only serve to prove Hollywood is out of ideas. It seems the last vestige of original stories lies in animated films. At least, that is what this summer has shown me, as the best film so far has been Pixar's Toy Story 3.Enter Despicable Me, film studio Universal's first foray into CG animation. They do a damn good job their first time out. What could've been clichéd and pandering is instead a charming, touching kid's film that should appeal to adults as well. Steve Carell voices the character Gru, the villain of the movie. There is no hero, however. Gru is not the antagonist, but rather, the villain we are meant to root for, as he is being challenged by a young upstart, Vector (voiced by Jason Segel). After Vector steals the Great Pyramid of Giza, Gru needs to one-up him to maintain his status as baddest villain of them all. He announces he will steal the moon. Unable to procure the much-needed shrink ray from Vector's fortress, Gru adopts three orphan girls to use as a distraction. Of course, the three girls are just as cute as buttons. Will they melt his heart? Despicable Me deals with some pretty mature themes for some entertainment directed towards the 6-10 year old set. Gru has a disapproving mother (voiced by Julie Andrews, in a great bit of casting against type) who (as we learn in flashbacks) was very emotional distant during his childhood. The movie also brings up the downside of growing older. Gru has tried many schemes, most of which has failed. The new villain on the block is suddenly a much more attractive option for the Bank of Evil (formerly known as Lehman Brothers, a great little wink to the adult audience), leaving Gru out in the cold. The orphans are not without their own issues, either. They are forced to sell cookies for the orphanage they live in, which is run by an uncaring woman, more interested in sales quotas than the children she is charged with guarding. It's all pretty heavy stuff, though the story deals with it in a very lighthearted manner.This being a kid's film, the three girls work their way into Gru's heart and we see the guy open up a little. Most of this transition takes place at an amusement park. This particular sequence is one of the highlights of the film, showing us the transition gradually and in a rather original way. It was actually quite moving.The movie throws in some great visual references to the movies that inspired it. Gru's megalomaniacal scheme echo some of the best Bond villain schemes. Gru himself looks like an animated version of the Bond villain Blofeld, right down to the indistinct Eastern European accent. I also saw some visual similarities between Gry and The Penguin, particularly the one Danny DeVito played in 1992's Batman Returns. Both have the long curved nose and while The Penguin in that film had an army of, uh, penguins at his disposal, Gru has a loyal following of minions, cute little yellow creatures that obey his every command. These little guys provide a lot of the comic relief, thanks to their gibberish language, and though they are in almost every scene, they do not overstay their welcome. Chances are these yellow guys will be getting their own film soon enough.The film is being shown in 3-D. In this case, the filmmakers use the technology effectively, which is a welcome change to most other 3-D movies that have been released this summer. Unlike films like The Last Airbender, Despicable Me makes sure we notice the depth of field with some great set pieces throughout the movie and some very amusing gags during the end credits. There's a part where Gru and the girls are riding a roller-coaster where the 3-D added a thrilling dimension to the viewing. It was much more compelling than watching CGI globes of water being hurled around the screen.There is not much I can say that is negative about Despicable Me. The film is formulaic, following a blueprint that is almost as old cinema itself. The Vector character gets just a little grating as the film moves forward. It's also hard to believe a guy who makes guns that fire various aquatic life is in any way threatening or fiendishly clever. But maybe I'm being picky.Despicable Me is great family entertainment. While it is not quite Toy Story 3, it does offer a great, original story that doesn't pander to the audience, no matter what age. Indeed, I saw the movie at a 10:10 showing, where there was not a child under 16 to be found and almost every seat was filled. It kept everyone is stitches. If this movie is any indication as to what we can expect for the rest of the summer, things look promising.http://tinyurl.com/2eglbmc
I heard that this movie was very good, and after seeing seeing it myself, I have to say I heartily concur. While not my favourite film of the year, and the film never tries to be that, Despicable Me is cute and wonderfully inventive. While it could have been a little longer, what made Despicable Me work was a number of things. The animation for starters is stunning, I liked the colours and character designs but it was the backgrounds and retro-futurist design that blew me away, while the gadgetry is ingenious.The music fits very well with the film and is memorable without being overly ambitious or simplistic, the story is ceaselessly inventive and fast paced with a surprisingly clever subplot about the importance of family. The characters also add a lot, Gru is wonderfully zany especially and I found it impossible not to fall in love with his minions, they are so cute. But my favourite assets of Despicable Me are the humour and the voice cast. The writing is just excellent, it was so funny and incredibly smart without feeling too much, while the voice work is exemplary especially from Steve Carell whose brilliant vocals add a lot to the film's success.Overall, a truly great film with a lot to like. 9/10 Bethany Cox
I should note that I did NOT see this film in 3-D but at a non-3-D equipped theater. I am not sure that this impacted my viewing experience very much as most 3-D films I have seen really didn't benefit much from this technology--the most notable exception being 'How To Train Your Dragon'--a film that fully utilized 3-D and was amazing to see in all its glory.I should also point out that I knew exactly where this film was going long before it got there--and I am sure most adult viewers and kids probably felt the same way. Heck, just by watching the preview for the film a few months back, I knew exactly where the film would go. But despite being a formulaic film where the big curmudgeon has his heart melted by some adorable orphans, I still had a wonderful time watching the movie. Why? Because it did something that many family movies forget--it was fun!! And, on top of that, it was super-cute--but not in a cloying manner. Unless you are Genghis Khan, you WILL find the countless little yellow minions to be completely adorable and funny--a real high point for the film. Heck, a couple months before the film was released, I was at Universal Studios in Florida and just HAD to have my picture taken with one of these characters as it roamed the park--it was just so freaking cute! And, I even liked the adorable little orphans--something I usually hate in films. They had a good balance between cute, sassy and endearing.Overall, this is a wonderful 3-D movie because parents can enjoy it. I loved the characters and thought the French animators did a terrific job--with artistry that stacks up very well against the older and more established CGI studios, Pixar and Dreamworks. A pleasant treat that won't change your life...but who cares if it's so entertaining?! By the way, the plot for this film sure looks a lot like 'Megamind' that was released just a few weeks later. I have yet to see 'Megamind' and plan on doing so soon, so I'll update this review to reflect which of the two films I preferred. I just can't imagine how 'Megamind' could be that much better!
Let me just say that my 8 yr old and his best friend, who were my charming companions to the 2D version this am, LOVED the movie. They think it's even better than 'How to Train a Dragon.' (Which apparently is the standard for movie greatness.) There was lots of laughing and chuckling going on on their end of the isle. Anyway, back to me, the one with the money... I think I was hoping for too much from Steve as Gru. The bar was set too high...I was hoping for impromptu hilarity. Instead, it was just fine to dull. I checked the time on three different occasions and found myself questioning Mr. Carell's decision to vacate his 'Office' job for more voice-over gigs. ha ha Anyway, take your elementary age kids to see it, if they must. Don't save it as a date night movie hoping for a Michael Scott fix. Instead, stay home and watch The Office reruns and catch Disp. Me at Blockbuster later.
I love the concept of this film, how the viewpoint is of the villain and that conflict and battle of the egos' for the best villain title. But i think the film really kicked in when we are introduced to the cutest little orphan girls: Margo, Edith and Agnes (Agnes being the youngest and cutest) I loved the character development of Gru, who turns from failed villain to loving father and big softie. But sadly this film kept being interrupted by silly characters such as Vector (who just simply wasn't funny) and Dr. Nefario who was just a British idiot. But then when we are brought back to Gru's storyline which simply make the film what it is. So it did feel inconsistent, the storyline of Gru and the little kids is the best and i guess you can cope with the in between bits. Of course it's not as good as a PIXAR animation: because it didn't have that emotional depth as PIXAR does (it was emotional and sweet but thats it, nothing more) and a PIXAR film feels right and feels so nurtured by a group of enthusiastic artists and animators but this felt like just a good film. But putting that aside this is no doubt an enjoyable film, of course the little minions were cute, and there was some great character development in this film so i would say it's a good watch.
WHAT A WASTE OF TIME, TALENT, AND MONEY!How in the world is this really, really lame movie getting such good reviews? 1. Boring, old, and overused story line. 2. Saturday morning cartoon like plot and animation. 3. Really bad voice overs (come on.. can't we do a better join of reading from the script into a microphone? how about a little emotion, voice inflection, or originality?). 4. Reuse of characters (the villain looks exactly like a character used in 'The Incredibles' and the middle aged girl looks like the boy at the beginning of 'Up'). 5. Compared to 'Toy Story 3' and 'Shrek' this summer animation is a way, way distant 3rd place (not even close). 6. (and this is the worst) This movie is really just NOT all that funny. In fact, if it wasn't for the site gags by the minions the number of time the audience laughed for this movie in the theater I was in (an almost full Cinemark 3D Xtreme theater) could be counted on one hand!So.. ignore all the planted and unrealistically high reviews in here created by paid reviewers (I just love those giving a rating of 9 or 10 to this piece of junk and claiming that they are a real reviewer and not paid off), save your hard earned money, and rent it on DVD for a dollar or two when it comes out around Thanksgiving (if not sooner).I feel really ripped off by this one....
I consider a family film geared towards an audience of all ages (ie Toy Story, Dragon) and I think children's films like Nanny McPhee and CareBears the Movie do nothing but entertain the youngsters while we older folk sit and watch mindlessly - but perhaps chuckle occasionally. That is what Despicable Me is: a children's film. I loved the previews and thought it would be hysterical (It's Steve Carell!) but I was disappointed. Ever since the first preview with the pyramids, I expected greatness. Not so. But it was not bad. Just... okay. It's decent. There are funny bits as the minions do nothing but slapstick, saving the day in the process... And the cute little girl everyone is raving about? Slightly annoying at times. She's is THAT kind of cute. I kinda liked Edith who had a flair of dark comedy in her. It is worth a matinée ticket. Don't bother with the expensive 3-D glasses that are only useful during the roller coaster scene.
Despicable Me is a film that is aimed for kids under 10, and indeed gets there. Unfortunately, it only gets there. If you're over 10, then you won't be into it. There's just too many fart and booger jokes and not enough sophisticated humor for adults or even teenagers like myself. Sure, I laughed once or twice and felt some emotion once or twice but you can't depend on one or two laughs and one or two emotional scenes to sustain a whole movie, especially at $10 a ticket. Steve Carrell's funny voice got annoying after a while, but the minions are funny. I mean this film had a lot of potential. This could have been something bloody brilliant and just plain great, but there's simply not enough of that here. The little girls are somewhat of an annoyance and get in the middle of an interesting story of a super villain. The characters are (mostly) 1-Dimensional and rather than not trying enough like most movies, this movie tries too hard and ends up stuffing too much into its own film and becomes the victim of its own clever game. Overall, I can't recommend Despicable Me, it's too overstuffed and boring. There are better kids movies out there for your kids to see, so skip this one and go see Toy Story 3 again.
I know that many people are going to knock me around for this review, and I understand that, but I really throughly enjoyed the new animated film Despicable Me.I see many films every year, including How To Train Your Dragon from my own studio, Dreamworks, which was an excellent film. Shrek 4, not so much. Then comes Toy Story 3, the latest adventure with Buzz and Woody. While it was great to see them back on the big screen, I wasn't as impressed with the third film as many critics and fans of the series were, and I feel that the inevitable fourth Toy Story film should go back to basics and focus on the central characters like Buzz and Woody again.Which leads me to Despicable Me. Now, like most other people, the trailers really didn't interest me at all. It was only after my young daughter had heard from her classmates how great the film was to watch and how much that children had really enjoyed it.So, I took my family to see this film, and man, I really enjoyed it! Steve Carrell's Gru is the first animated anti-hero that I really enjoyed watching. Where Toy Story 3 was filled with many mean spirited characters that actually frightened many small children (I heard many children screaming at times.) Despicable Me was definitely more light hearted. Was Despicable Me a better written movie than Toy Story 3? No. But was it more enjoyable? Yes, I would have to say so. I enjoyed the light hearted spirit of the film, rather than the dark tone of the latest Pixar film and the minons easily steal the film.I can see Despicable Me become a series of animated hits for Universal and with great word of mouth spreading, I think that the filmmakers have made one winner of a great animated film. Despicable Me was far better than the last Shrek film, and more enjoyable than the latest Toy Story film for me and my family. I understand many will disagree with my review, and that's fine with me.
Despicable Me (1:35, PG) — Other: Comedy; 2nd string; originalYou remember those little green 3-eyed space aliens who came out of the pay-a-quarter grabber box in Toy Story? Well, Despicable Me comes up with a legion of similarly whimsical scene-stealers: the minions, little yellow guys shaped like time-release capsules, all of whom wear goggles over either 1 or 2 eyes and scurry cheerfully and endlessly (if not always effectively) to do the bidding of their master Gru (Steve Carell), the World's Greatest Villain, or his hench-mad-scientist Dr. Nefario (Russell Brand).The WGV title is visually underlined by driving the biggest polluter since Mount Pinatubo but apparently determined solely by which world landmarks one has recently stolen. This dubious distinction seems to be slipping out of Gru's grasp, as most recently the Great Pyramid of Giza has been pilfered by upstart Vector (Jason Segel), a nebbishy young guy in a jumpsuit which — like everything he owns — is embellished with a giant letter 'V'. Gru determines to top this feat by upping the ante and stealing  the Moon!To do this, however, he needs financing, so he returns to the place which has always backed his fiendish endeavors in the past, the Bank of Evil and its pompous but imposing director, Mr. Perkins (Will Arnett). Unbeknownst to Gru, however, Perkins is Vector's father and is secretly rigging the game so that his boy will prevail in the end.The oi in the flyntment comes in the most innocuous form, as 3 little orphans from Miss Hattie's School for Girls — responsible oldest sister Margo (Miranda Cosgrove), Edith (Dana Geier), and unicornphile Agnes (Elsie Fisher) — appear at Vector's front door selling cookies. Vector effusively welcomes them (since he just loves coconutties), and Gru, hiding in the bushes doing recon, hatches a scheme to infiltrate his rival's headquarters. He adopts the girls, then sneaks robot cookies into the order his new wards deliver to Vector.At this point, true to his villainous nature, he figures the girls have outlived their usefulness and tries to get rid of them. But they're really adorable, and they inveigle him into a carnival where he becomes incensed at one of the rigged games; grossly overreacts; wins the big stuffed animal for the little girls; earns their admiration, gratitude, hugs, and devotion; and loses his heart. He soon finds himself dithering over competing entries for May 26 in his appointment calendar: Swan Lake (the girls are taking ballet) or Steal the Moon.Meanwhile, Nefario grows increasingly exasperated at his boss's loss of focus. His own reputation is on the line, too. Unfortunately, his hearing is starting to fail him, and he's been turning out noogie robots and fart guns instead of cookie robots and dart guns. And the whole movie is like that, basically a joke a minute, almost all of them winners.This is an immensely good-natured film, with a plethora of visual gags and the occasional bone tossed to the adults (like the subtitle 'formerly Lehman Brothers' under the Bank of Evil logo).Despicable Me is also completely shallow. Everything is on the surface. There's not even as much character development as in, say, How To Train Your Dragon (another animated kid flick that had a more serious bent to it). But it never pretends to more. It's a chuckle-delivery vehicle, and it performs completely up to its design specs.My only serious complaint was that Hans Zimmer's score featured too much loud, pervasive drum banging in the early going, but fortunately he stopped after awhile.Story by Sergio Pablos, screenplay by Ken Daurio and Cinco Paul, direction by Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud. Bravo! More, please.
Despicable Me is the latest animated film in what appears to be an endless assault of 3D cinema. Luckily for us this movie actually does a fairly decent job of utilizing the 3D technology in creating a pleasant looking and functional 3D landscape. Here we follow a master villain named Gru (voiced by Steve Carell) who aims to become the worlds most notorious super villain. Along with the help of Dr. Nefario (Russell Brand) and a host of little, yellow creatures known as the 'minions' (though Gru knows each one by name), Gru finally gets his shot when he attempts to steal the moon. The only problem is he doesn't have the weapon needed or the money. Not to mention he is being out-hustled by Vector (Jason Segel), a young, upstart of a villain with more money and one big heist already under his belt.In order for his plan to succeed, Gru requires the help of three orphan girls, which he adopts, and misleads them into helping his evil cause. What appears to be a simple plan turns out to be disaster and ultimately leads to Gru connecting with the girls and distracting him from his master plan.There's a point during this movie where I just gave up analyzing the story and how it makes sense and just sat there and watched, taking each joke one line at a time and then moving on to the next one. It kind of worked. The story and the logic doesn't really matter, like where the minions come from, why Gru became a villain, or why he doesn't try to go after something easier.The crowd favorite was without a doubt Agnes, the youngest of the orphan girls that Gru adopts. She looks like a bobble head doll with puppy dog eyes and an obsession with unicorns. She is the punchline in just about every scene she is in, but that works. As far as moving the story along, she does nothing to that effect. To be quite honest there really only needs to be one girl, but having three personalities gives us some variety. Even though there could probably be a solution that doesn't involve using the girls, it is necessary for the girls to try and change Gru into a better person.In regard to the voice acting, this is a pretty solid performance all around. Carell does a pretty decent job while the others almost go out of their way to not sound like their real selves, which is refreshing. Unlike Dreamworks films which is basically just hiring big name stars to talk into a microphone with some feeling, just some. Brand does a nice job as well as Segel, but I was very surprised to see others like Will Arnett, Kristin Wiig, and out of left field...Julie Andrews! All of which did a sufficient job.After looking past overwhelming cutesy nature of the film, this is actually a pretty well made film. I would absolutely recommend seeing this in 3D. The 3D isn't as fluid as Avatar, but nothing will be for a while (except maybe Toy Story 3, but that's a different story entirely). The characters are so disproportionate in all physical areas, which can be amusing, but after a while you don't even notice. The big winner here is the depth. I feel like every time I talk about 3D movies this is my number one concern, but it helps so much. It makes an average scene look great and a great scene look spectacular. There are examples of both in this film. Some parts had hints of genius, only to be followed by a slap of cuteness that almost ruins the moment. Almost.This is just a fun film that kids and adults can go see together and not sit in agony. I would fork up the money for the 3D if you can to really give you the full experience (especially during the end credits). I wouldn't go too out of my way to see this one, but I wouldn't avoid it either.
This week the heat exceeded 90 degrees until today -- when we've had rain -- so my grandchildren whom I watch during the day have been inside. As a reward for good behavior, on Wednesday we planned that we'd go to the movie theater today to see Despicable Me in 2D.On the ride home, Brandon, 10, said, 'The previews were funny. The movie wasn't.' Then Sophia, who's 7, piped up and asked, 'Wait. What did we just do?' After Brandon and I looked at each other, I replied, 'Saw Despicable Me.' To which she replied, 'Oh, yeah.' Steve Carell's Mr. Gru voice characterization was memorable and I was looking forward to hearing Russell Brand's comedic delivery. However, there was no character with an English accent, so it wasn't until the credits ran that I discovered he was the voice of an unfunny Dr. Nefario.Humor? 'The Evil Bank (formerly Lehman Brothers)' The roller coaster scene would have been fantastic to have seen in 3D. It was still enjoyable in 2D.Who laughed? The elderly woman sitting behind us. Rarely anyone else. If it hadn't been 11:00 AM, I would have easily (and gladly) taken a 90-minute nap. As it was, I had to sit quietly waiting for the end. That said, it could have been worse: It could have been a 91-minute movie.
This movie had potential to be a great film. The idea of a villain taking care of three little girls, surrounded by bug-eyed minions, while trying to steal the moon, seemed like it would be worth a few laughs. Sadly, it wasn't. What's with all the praises?Most of the scenes were only to show of the 3D, so the overall film was bland. Any time the movie came close to conveying real emotion or care for the characters it jumped to a new scene. It was disappointing, I wanted to care about the characters, but couldn't. I was excited when they began to show Gru's back story, but all we got were snippets, nothing substantial that fully explained his relationship with his mother, his notions of parenting, or turn to villainy. His fascination with the moon was barely touched upon, and could have helped support the film. Giving Gru some ray guns, gray clothes, and thick accent does not make him a villain, unless we know why he became a villain in the first place.The movie was overall bland. The jokes fell flat. Perhaps little children who have yet to develop a sense of humor beyond burps and farts enjoyed it.The voice work of Steve Carell was great, but the random addition of Julie Andrews, who in my opinion is a great voice talent, was a pointless waste of talent, seeing as how she couldn't have had more than three lines.I will say one thing positive about this film, I really enjoyed the music.
I got early screening passes to go see this with my family tonight, and went well out of our way to go see it. I must say it was absolutely worth it. Funniest movie I have seen in a long time. It's great for kids and adults it has such a great humor that everyone laughed. The whole theater was laughing for an hour and half! Definitely see it in 3D though. And normally I don't care for 3D, cause it's kinda blurry and weird, but this movie's 3D effects were really well done!Oh and remember to stay and watch the credits, the Minions do some really cool stuff, where they come out of the screen. WELL WORTH YOUR MONEY! Going on my list of favorite movies. ^.^
I watched the movie because of the huge hype about the sequel, Despicable Me 2. I wanted to see what all the fuss was about as this appeared nothing more than a little animated film that would never be heard of again two months after release. So it must be a good film, right? No. It was very dull with a shallow and predictable story. Also, I thought animated films were supposed to be funny. I found myself being forced to laugh at times despite this being (apparently) 'a funny film'. There were a couple of genuine smiles but I can count on one hand the amount of times I nearly laughed. This is just like most animated films, it has a silly story, poor voice acting (at times I thought Steve Carell sounded like Shrek) and just generally average. I don't know why it's so popular. Actually, I have a theory... Them Minions! Everyone loves them because they are cute and funny. No they're not. They're annoying and stupid. It's so blatant that they are an advertising tool to cover up for this poor movie. They are the thing that little kids remember from this movie and that's why it's so popular. It wouldn't surprise me if they had their own movie soon! To sum up then, Despicable Me is just another animated film. The reason people like it might be because of the Minions but I can find no other reason at all.
A.O. Scott, journalist of The New York Times, said 'while there's nothing to hate, there's not much to remember' about Despicable Me and he's 100% correct. While Best Buy does have a special app for Smartphones and iPhones for this (will state what it does and is at the end) called 'Best Buy Movie Mode' which is something I can pretty soon seeing all movies have at one point, this film is still just a poor copy of How the Grinch Stole Christmas. Surely Universal Pictures did a great job animating it and it really looks like the equivalent to a much more recent (and better) film, Toy Story 3. But still, it has the ability for animation, but it doesn't have the fun and morals that are packed in a Pixar film.To sum it up, after a pyramid is stolen in Egypt, we are introduced to Gru (Steve Carell) who is the second best super-villain in the world, right behind Vector (Jason Segel), who stole the pyramid. To fight back, Gru then develops a plan to shrink the moon which he believes will make him the best super-villain. After Vector steals his shrink ray which was to make Gru able to shrink the moon to pocket size, he adopts three girls; Margo (Miranda Cosgrove), Edith, and Agnes to sell cookies to Vector for Gru to be able to take his shrink ray back and continue with his plans. Gru is also armed with thousands of yellow one and two eyed minions. They are the cutest and best thing by far about the movie. Though their English is below average and some words you can understand, but most you cannot, which is where the app comes in.The cute Minions make up the entire film.Best Buy Movie Mode was created so when you 'enter Movie Mode' on your phone when directed by the screen itself, your phone will sync the movie and when the credits come your phone will vibrate (no confusion since the app disables your ringer) and it will subtitle what the little yellow fellows are saying. Its kind of cool, and since I was the only one in the entire theater laughing at the screen when everyone just watched trying to understand them, I felt like I knew more than they did (when I did).Still, it would make more sense if the app buzzed and dubbed what the Minions were saying throughout the movie rather than just at the end. But it was just as equally impressive. I was worried about starting it to early because I thought if I started it during the previews, the phone (which is a Motorola Droid) would think its the beginning and start dubbing when the credits weren't there yet. But the phone syncs it with the film which is almost amazing. Ahh, technology.But the movie itself, wasn't great. Below good, mediocre is the word. The film is a first degree knockoff of The Grinch and next to nothing is memorable. Ill remember the app (which isn't in the movie, so it doesn't count) and Ill remember the Minions. But the Minions are like the penguins in Madagascar. Their the best part, they deserve their own film, instead you are boring us with a back story and basically shielding the good parts away. At least Madagascar still holds up with jokes and doesn't let the secondary characters put on a one (or one thousand) man show.Many kids will love this, but when compared to Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Fantasia 2000, Pinocchio, and most recently Toy Story 3. The film just doesn't do it. Take Toy Story 3. The art in that is not only the animation, but the fun the film has. It takes your imagination on a whole new route reintroducing characters that have grown like us. A.O. Scott says its like 'art and junk'. Which it rightfully is. Besides the great voice work (mainly from Carell and Cosgrove) and good animation, the film is just despicably fair.With Voice Talents of: Steve Carell, Jason Segel, Russell Brand, Julie Andrews, Will Arnett, Kristen Wiig, Miranda Cosgrove, Dana Gaier, and Elsie Fisher. Directed by: Pierre Coffin.
Surprisingly, there seems to be a lot of PG rated films lately - which is nice for families.We saw the previews in 3D and it looked like a cute film.Which it was.Just don't go comparing it to anything by Pixar, but it has heart and humor.Won't bother to repeat the story.. But it was nice to see Love as the central message of a movie.Love of a mother for a son, a son for his mother, children for their dad.And the minions love for ..um.. Grul.The message is that we sometimes lose track of what is important to us (family) when success gets in the way. And that wanting to please other people (Grul wanting to please his mother) stops us from being whom we were meant to be.The minions were cute, but felt they could have been used more...The cast was very good, and while the animation is not up to Pixar quality, the film was always watchable.Ironically, my theater could only get the 2D version. Somehow, I think this would have been more fun in 3D.Fun for the whole family - though there is one scene that looks like blood that could scare very young children.7.5/10
I went to see this movie just yesterday with one of my best friends. I was actually surprised at how empty the theater was (we got great seats, to say the least), especially since it only came out the other day. I guess people were just out seeing that God forsaken teen flick 'Eclipse'. Well boy were they missing out! My friend and I sat through an hour and a half (I think) of funny comments, changing hearts, and confusing (but impressive) accents. When I say the accents were confusing, I simply meant GRU'S accent. Was it French, Russian, or German? I couldn't tell, but I have to say that it annoys me more now than it did while I was watching the movie. I would suspect this is because...well, because it was a great movie! I found myself thinking time and time again that Gru was not meant to be an evil genius! No, he was destined for something else, something fatherly. And this is exactly what happens. Without those three little orphan girls (Margo, Edith, and Agnes), there would have been no (interesting) storyline. Gru would never have gotten the shrink ray, he never would have had his heart stolen by those adorable little girls, he never would have developed as a character. That being said, I find it suffice to say that the despicable people were the ones whose hearts didn't warm at the sight of the little girls, were the ones who found this movie a waste of time and money, and were the ones who didn't find this movie hilarious!
Gru (voiced with faux-eastern-Euopean gravitas by Steve Carell) is a nefarious Supervillain in the midst of crisis: a younger nemesis named Vector (voiced by 'Freaks and Geeks' alum Jason Segel) is stealing his fiendish thunder, his most recent acquisition being a Shrink Ray. In order to engender the good faith necessary in the bank that gives Gru loans to carry out his schemes (even Supervillains aren't immune to the bureaucratic red tape we normal citizens must contend with), he adopts three precocious orphan girls to unwittingly aid in his scheme to steal the moon, a heist so astronomical it will place him back at the top of the Supervillain ladder. That's 'Despicable Me,' in a nutshell. Yet the film is so richly textured (in both its exquisite animation and storytelling) that it becomes something transcendent of the usual doldrums of summer popcorn fodder. The character arcs are well-executed, the gadgets and gizmos are awesome to behold, and the eventual tenderness that seeps into Gru's dark heart is affecting without being sappy. As for Gru's squeak-uttering, cyclopean yellow 'minions'--they're a riot, adding an extra layer of slapstick humor to the proceedings. With so much overuse and abuse of the 3D medium as of late (with the cynical cash-grabs of 'Clash of the Titans' and 'The Last Airbender' being the most high-profile), it is refreshing to see it used so well in 'Despicable Me'--it is a visual feast that helps bring its underlying emotions into even sharper focus.
DESPICABLE ME has toppled the two giants, Pixar and DreamWorks Animation in this animated feature that is far above this year's animated feature products as we enter the mid-summer releases. Those of us who are grown-ups can forgive the predictable story since we know that we are not the primary audience for this film. Animated features are still made for children although the art form itself has long hungered after adult fare. It is quite capable of being applied to adult stories although very few Hollywood suits have yet to grasp that concept. The one exception that quickly comes to mind was the Ralph Bakshi animated films. Unfortunately, his work was illiterate and vulgar.Designed beautifully and with whimsical cleverness the characters are matched by superior writing. Although the scenes borrow concept humor from the once great Warner Bros. animation teams, the best-known being 'Termite Terrace,' the presentation is continuously funny, whimsical and entertaining. Steve Carell does his usually fine comic dialog--- as Gru, the villain that we know we will grow to love. Fortunately, for those who are very familiar with this fine comic voice, he masks it with an odd European accent that sometimes sounds like Bela Lugosi on steroids.This brings to mind having to sit through three Toy Story movies (thus far) and having to fight the image of Tom Hanks every time the character, Woody, would speak. Walt Disney was, of course, correct when he cast Adriana Caselotti as Snow White instead of the 'A' listed movie singers of the time because he wanted his audience not to have to go through that painful exercise. No doubt, greedy agents have sold modern animation producers a bill of goods but the tots who go to see these films could not care less about the names behind the voices even if they knew who they were, which they do not. Known, 'A' list voices needlessly pump up budgets for these films.Above the entire picture is the most amazing fact that DESPICABLE ME comes to us from Universal Animation, which was originally cobbled together from the Sullivan-Bluth efforts and other entities less than ten years ago. Whatever happened to bring this formerly humdrum studio to life let us hope for morewe will certainly look for it.
Saw this today with my 15yo nephew and 11yo niece. We all loved it! It joins my list of top animated movies (in order): Shrek (original) - Monsters, Inc. - Despicable Me - Toy Story (original) (I haven't seen TS3 yet) <>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<> P R O S <>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>#1- The 'hidden' jokes throughout the movie - Little references woven in and around the main dialog that kept me giggling and thoroughly involved in the entire movie. #2 - The sweetness of the plot and the relationships involved. The relationships/attachments were developed well in a short time frame so that the movie plot could progress at a rate that didn't lose my attention. #3 - Follow through on the jokes. Some jokes are referenced again later in the movie and not just dropped - So they were funny the first time, and heart warming the second time. #4 - The minions were 'scripted' well (they speak their own language), but their roles were a hoot! #5 - Steve Carell's acting. EXCELLENT! Unexpected and endearing!<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<> C O N S <>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<> That I didn't see it in 3D the first time. :o) Seriously, I have to think REALLY hard to come up with any. However, If I HAD to pick something I'd say:#1 - The selection of the moon as the item to steal seemed odd to me.#2 - Another thing that I think could have been set up a little better before it plays out, is the plot line involving the cookie robots and their orders (or programming) in that scheme. A little bit more suspense could have built if the audience had known that there was a time limit that Gru and minions were working on.Again, the CONS are so minor, they were not distracting - the movie carried my attention past my questions (for me, that can be tough for a movie to do when even small plot 'issues' jump out at me).<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<> S U M M A R Y <>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>-<>Just go and enjoy it! I'll be buying it when it comes out on DVD!
How can any other movie company possibly compete with PIXAR and Dreamworks in the animation department? Well, you either get really lucky to get your film funded....or, you get a studio like Universal to shell you out a couple million. And that's exactly what they did with this movie. I like to see something fresh and new in the animation department......well, you always seem to get that with PIXAR, but not so much with Dreamworks. Hopefully this will add a new level of competition in the realm of animation.Well, i was kind of hoping that this movie would offer something a little different, but instead, it came off just like a mediocre Dreamworks picture. In fact, i actually forgot that this was produced by Universal, and assumed it was a Dreamworks Animation project. Don't get me wrong, the movie kept my attention and was mildly entertaining.........but much like Dreamworks movies, this movie failed in the second act. You know how some animated movies tend to get a little dull and boring in the middle.....yeah, that somewhat happened with this.Also, the humor was in little doses, and at times, it seemed like they were begging for your laughs. Yes there were some sequences that had you lightly chuckling to yourself, but after a while, the jokes fall a little flat. Yeah the story is a little on the cute side, which is alright with me......but it's emotional level isn't as high as say....PIXAR? Okay, I'm sorry for using so many comparisons to other animation companies. But it's kind of hard not to, when you basically have only 3. So your easily going to compare and contrast.Bottom Line, yeah, it's pretty entertaining, and has you laughing just a little bit. But it wasn't as good as i was hoping it would be. The kids will love it, maybe even some parents. But it certainly doesn't have that WOW! factor we all expect when we see an animated feature.
This movie is so bland something had to be said, its no good, it relies on cheap plot devices to try and make the viewer feel emotionally attached to the characters. I can't find one ounce of originality in it. Cute innocent orphans (Annie, 101 Dalmations), a renegade who learns to love (Lilo and Stitch,), Minions who offer comic relief (Wily Wonka and the Chocolate Factory), its all been done before people. Like i said, the plot is basically The Pacifier meets Shrek. Like if they literally worked both plots in the same movie and changed the characters names. Only Shrek had good humor, where a lot of this movie's humor falls flat, i only laughed maybe once or twice at it. The physical humor will be funny to your kids, but the word of mouth jokes are odd and awkward. And i know its meant for little kids, but this movie looks like a TV movie i could watch on Nickelodeon. The animation is good but pretty unimpressive by todays standards. Take your kids to see Toy Story 3 instead, and if they've already seen Toy Story 3, go rent ANY of the other movies i mentioned in this review, people need to stop supporting half brained unoriginality like this. Take your kid to watch a movie that will stimulate their mind, not rot their brain with fart jokes.
Unlike the other summer computer animated movies I've seen, Toy Story 3 and, yes, Shrek Forever After, Despicable Me was sort of blah for me. Yes, Steve Carell is pretty amusing as the voice of the leading character and seeing that character in scenes with his minions, those three orphan girls, and some others I won't mention provided some good laughs. And it's also amusing recognizing Julie Andrews as his mother while I couldn't place Kristen Wiig or Jason Segel until after the credits which was a nice surprise for me. And the 3-D effects are awesome as usual. But the story wasn't tight enough and seemed to rely too much on cuteness to provide much comic bite. Not to mention I was fighting sleep during the middle part. So in summation, Despicable Me was mildly entertaining but didn't totally hit it out of the ball park for me like the other two computer animated movies I mentioned at the beginning of this review.
Right in the center of a normal neighborhood, in normal suburbia, sits  an odd house with a dried out lawn and large spires. Inside is the  secret lair of an ambitious super villain Gru (Steve Carell) and his  army of mischievous minions.  Gru is wallowing in the shadow of a highly publicized heist completed  by a competing super villain named Vector (Jason Segal), so Gru  attempts to raise his game.  Along the way, Gru crosses paths with three orphaned girls who view him  not as a villain, not as cold or uncaring but most importantly, not as  a failure. The orphans see Gru as their savior from the orphanage.  The three girls (Margo, Edith and Agnes) are the key to Gru's  transformation, his master plan and the overall plot of this Universal  answer to 'Shrek 4″ and 'Toy Story 3″ Unfortunately, they are not in  the same class.  First, there is no reason for this to be in 3-D as it offers nothing to  improve the story. The animation as several flaws, dark shadows drag  lines and poorly portrays the emotions of its characters compared to  Pixar's Woody and pals.  Second, this is a child's film first and foremost. There are plenty of  laughs, especially from the minions, but your kids are going to enjoy  this film much more than you.  There are plenty of big names offering their voices: Russell Brand as  Dr. Nefario, Julie Andrews as Gru's Mom and Miranda Cosgrove (iCarly)  is Margo. It was only Steve Carell's Gru that stood out.  Sierra, age 11 said: 'It was great to see a story from the villain's  point of view.' My eight-year-old didn't have a bad thing to say 'I  liked all of it' and the 5-year-old from our group (not a Jones) loved  it so much that she thought she could go see it again. The teenage son  was much more critical of the animation and was moderate in his praise.  I concur.  'Despicable Me' is a good film, not a great one even though it's great  to their target audience:10-year-olds and younger. There are a ton of  great gags, funny lines, but the story is predictable and derivative  lacking the depth and meatiness that audiences have found in the Pixar  films. The trailers have ruined a couple of the better moments, which  is always frustrating. Most important is that the parenting theme is  inferior to great films like 'Up' or 'Finding Nemo'.
A lot of recommendations and positive things I've heard about this movie. I must admit that when I started to watch the movie I expected a lot from him. My expectations were too high and that the movie progressed, I realized it's a little overrated. The first thing that I did not like is the plot. The plot was boring and had no way to tell attract attention. It was definitely the biggest minus the movie. Because if the story is bad and can you interested, then this is a big problem. Positive things of movie is animation and minions. The animation is actually done really well and everything looks beautiful. Minions are the brightest point of the film. They are yellow creatures that will always make you smile. I do not know if that's funny their speech or behavior. I really love to see a good animated movie and enjoy them. I enjoyed and with 'Despicalbe Me' but my to the opinion a bit overrated.
Despicable Me never seems to aim for any lofty heights, but despite myself I enjoyed it in a very lightweight sort of way.The film revolves around Gru (Steve Carrell), a character of (I think?) Eastern European origin, who looks like the Critic from Ratatouille – with an extra 40 kgs and an even pointier nose.Gru is a wannabe supervillain who desperately yearns for notoriety – only in this bold new era of younger and better equipped supervillains performing larger and more evil acts of villainy – it is becoming harder to stand out from the crowd. In fact Gru's last several attempts at major crime have actually resulted in capital losses – something that has damaged his Credit Rating at the local Bank of Evil (I thought after 2008 that was the name for ALL banks?).Gru doesn't work alone however, he has an evil scientist sidekick named Dr Nefario (Russell Brand) who pops in and out of the story. Nefario is hard of hearing and a bit scatterbrained, but he keeps bringing Gru back to reality and devises new weapons and gadgets to aid his evil schemes.Gru also has many minions that all look like tennis-ball-coloured overall wearing Twinkies about 2 foot tall. Their number of eyes varies between one and two, and they speak a nonsensical (for the most part) language. They seem perpetually happy and adore Gru and obey his every instruction implicitly. While the rest of the film provides a fair number of chuckles make no mistake, it is the minions that are far and away the funniest characters in Despicable Me.But what of the plot? Gru decides with the help of his fiendish scientist buddy Dr Nefario that their next project will merely be stealing the Moon itself – what they'll then do with it is never discussed in any detail The problem is to fund the scheme Gru needs money, and the Bank of Evil won't give him money without proof that he has the shrink ray that everyone knows is required to complete the task.As Gru does not have a shrink ray he steals one, only to have it onstolen by new hotshot on the block, a nerd named Vector who has made his name by stealing world landmarks, Vector looks like the offspring of Bill Gates and McLovin' and constantly wears an awful orange tracksuit. So starts an ongoing battle between the two, Gru repeatedly tries to get into Vector's heavily armed fortress – complete with killer shark! – and repeatedly fails to do so Upon spotting how easily a group of orphan cookie sellers gain entry Gru hatches a devious plot.I'll fast forward through the next bit but suffice to say Gru decides to adopt these three adorable orphan girls Margo, Edith and Agnes (about 8, 5 and 3 ish respectively) and use them to gain entry. There is a subplot about how the orphanage is being run as something of a money-making sweat shop by a supposedly nice (but really evil) woman named Miss Hattie – but for some reason this is never explored much beyond establishing the premise.The kids are relieved at being out of the orphanage – and they love playing with the minions – the minions similarly love playing with the kids. Gru himself refuses point blank though to play, or really do anything relating to the kids initially.Gru firmly believes that true supervillains can't afford the emotional distraction of having a family, so in the early going he deliberately avoids any real contact or discussion with the girls, Dr Nefario in particular resents the girls presence and wants them gone.But this is a kid's movie, so we know Gru can't really be that evil. While he initially intends simply to use and rid himself of the kids as quickly and easily as possible he finds them growing on him, and even stranger he finds himself – gradually mind you – enjoying their presence more and more and with the launch date of the moon-stealing mission clashing with the girl's scheduled dance recital a decision looms The voice acting is OK but lacks a WOW factor, Brand simply thickens his own accent and Carrell comes across as a 'Gary Oldman as Dracula' clone, and Segal merely plays Vector as a cocky kid – which is what he is so go ahead Jason. The songs by Pharell are – to be frank – twee, simple and boring – though I think that was supposed to be a big deal as the film keeps showcasing these boring little ditties over montages and key scenes. But that was really the only true negative to a surprisingly funny and entertaining film.Even though Despicable Me is a totally lightweight and fluffy kid's flick it manages to navigate a fine line between funny and cutesy, the girls are cute and adorable without being saccharine sweet and Gru and Nefario are more naughty than evil or diabolical. The ending to the film is quite well done actually which is a change nowadays when animated films simply stop once they run out of jokes rather than build to a big finale, but as mentioned before it is the Minions that steal the show. Like a funnier Scrat (from the Ice Age films) they bumble and dodder about the place with inane grins jabbering away, each time at least eliciting a smile. Repeat viewings might dull their impact and amusement level, but on first viewing I couldn't help but chuckle at them frequently.Final Rating – 6 / 10. See it for the plot, stay for the Minions. If you must choose between Megamind and Despicable Me this year, this film wins by a country mile.
I'm surprised. I,m easy to get along with movies, so i thought i'd like it but it would be horrible from critics and IMDb users.Well, this movie touches your your heart and has the laugh-a-minute comedy that can appeal to anyone.I about died from laughing when the minions went into the grocery store.Which ,in my opinion, are the star of the show.Is this a classic? No. Is it worth a watch? Yes.people can say 'Oh, I don't get the point of that movie.Well,it's to entertain and hysterical,yet with a good message.At the end i wished that there was more of it.I'll probably forget this movie sometime in my life, but it was still worth a watch.My rating:*********-/10
Exceptional combination of laughs for the adults and laughs for the kids. Te jokes were not overly complicated, nor overly stupid. The characters had decent depth given the time allowed.To paraphrase Bruce Dickinson of SNL skit fame, 'I want more minion!'.The minions made the movie, without them it would not have been the same.I look forward to a sequel hopeful that the tone of this movie is continued.I hope that Best Buy however learns it's lesson. Their Movie Mode software for understanding what the minions said at the end was totally useless.
When i first saw the trailers for this movie i was ready to dismiss it as a cheap dreamworks rip-off, but when i saw it got nominated for a golden globe and heard so many wonderful things about i decided to give it a watch.It's just awful, the premise seems somewhat interesting a villain tries to pull of his greatest heist yet, but keeps being outdone by a younger villain, but the story focus mainly on three girls, who make me wonder if anyone involved with this movie has ever spent any time with children, they are annoying and not in a 'cute' way, they are all clichéd archetypes that make you want to reach out and choke them, which almost seems possible thanks to the quite good 3D, the whole movie looks really pretty in a strange way, everything is shiny for some reason, but it's annoying from start to finish and 30min into the movie it felt like torture, for me there is nothing redeemable about this movie in the slightest, i don't expect every movie to set the world on fire, but i do expect them to at least try something new, this all seemed like a textbook example of how to make a kids movie but with extra cheesiness.Having said that, my brother did enjoy himself and wanted to give it a 5/10, but for him the funniest/best scenes where the dancing scene (why do all kids movies need those?) and a scene wherein a man used his butt to operate a keyboard, so if that sounds like a good time for you, then go watch some youtube clips and skip this movie.
my mother loves animated films and i adore them my self. my mother walked out of this film. I stayed and watched, because i had to see how bad it really was. It was a great cartoon, it would do great with kids and on Saturday morning, but not worth it pass the kids.If only kids go see this, it will do well, but honestly its not a great animated film, its like Jimmy Neutron that movie won an award for best animated film, even though in the same year final fantasy spirits within came out, and was a better movie Jimmy Neutron won cos it had kid appeal. This movie has Kid appeal, and thats it.For adults it failed, they might do better making a minions movie.
I watched the 2D version of 'Despicable Me' with my kids this afternoon. The trailers were not really very good or enticing for me to be excited about it. It was honestly quite a mixed bag for me.The story involved a super villain named Gru whose status was threatened by a nerdy upstart named Vector, who upped the evil ante by stealing the Great Pyramid of Egypt. (Is it my imagination or is Vector a dig at Bill Gates?) Anyway, to top that heist, Gru plots on stealing the Moon itself. To do that, Gru saw the need to adopt three orphan girls, named Margo, Edith and Agnes, in order to infiltrate Vector's lair. Initially, harsh and compassion-less towards the children, Gru eventually warms up and ends up actually caring for the kids. But can his love for the kids triumph over his obsession to be the top villain in the world? The initial scenes building up the story was too slow for me. In fact my wife and I both confessed to have dozed off in these parts. However, for me the fun and action begins when Gru went to adopt the girls. I liked the movie the most when it showed heart, and the developing love and sense of fatherhood of Gru towards the kids. Those two bedtime story reading scenes were the highlights of the whole film for me. The whole rivalry thing with Vector was not too good for me, mostly owing to the 'blah' way Vector was rendered and written.The comedy could be too rude (like how Gru acted during his interview with Ms. Hattie of the orphanage), or even gruesome (like red stuff coming out of a spiked box when a girl gets caught inside). However, when the movie tones down its hyperactivity and cranks up the human drama, I can't help but be very much touched by these scenes. Gru's scenes with Little Agnes (who positively loved fluffy unicorns!) were all executed to tear-jerking perfection.The voice acting by Steve Carrell was also instrumental for us to actually root for Gru despite his initial villainy. I was very surprised to see at the end that it was no less than Ms. Julie Andrews who voiced the funny character of Gru's mother. The voices of the three girls, especially the very cute Agnes, were very well rendered. The yellow blob-like Minions of Gru were also portrayed very cutely (but what are they, really?).Compared to the excellent animated films so far seen this year, which included 'Toy Story 3' and 'How to Train Your Dragon,' 'Despicable Me' falls behind in my opinion. The start may be quite annoying and uninteresting, however investing more time to watch will make this rather brash comedy prove to be a most heart-warming adventure instead.
Despicable Me was on a double feature at the drive in while we were vacationing in Maine. Our kids had never been to a drive in and we wanted to see Toy Story III, so we figured we would 'sit through' 'Despicable Me' in order to get to Toy Story III. Much to our delight, the trailers and ads for this gem did it very little justice. My impression from the commercials was that this was a juvenile and pointless kids cartoon. To the contrary, Despicable Me was funny, poignant and thoroughly enjoyable. It probably falls just a shade behind TSIII - which was on par with I and II - but not by much. The 'voice' cast was excellent, the animation was great and the story - which is not conveyed at all in the trailers - was fantastic. One of the better animated flicks I have seen in years.
When I saw the trailer for Despecible Me, I honestly couldn't wait to see this movie. Ever since I was a little girl, I watched animated movies and it wasn't so much the lead characters that I was interested in as it was the villains. They always seemed to have more life goals going on rather than the hero or princess and had better personalities, not to mention betters songs. So to make a movie about the villain as our leading character was just awesome. What makes them tick, what motivates them and do they ever feel the pressure of keeping up the competition to be feared? So we introduce Dreamwork's new piece: Despecible Me. While I thought the film was going to be great, it didn't live up to my expectations. Not saying that the movie was bad because it did have some really cute moments, that's all it turned out to be: cute. I wanted it to be a little more clever, but I suppose with all the animated films that come out each year, we're spoiled. With Toy Story 3 also being released this summer, I suppose I want more. Because the animation is nothing special and the story was a bit too predictable.In the middle of a suburban neighborhood sits a black house with a dead lawn, hidden deep beneath this home is the vast secret hideout of the super villain Gru and his army of mischievous little minions. He wants to pull the biggest heist in world history: stealing the moon. Gru tries to get a loan from the local Bank of Evil, where he meets Vector, and finds out that Vector stole an Egyptian Pyramid. Mr. Perkins, the bank president, refuses to give Gru a loan until he obtains the shrink ray for the plan. Vector promptly steals the shrink ray from him; Gru makes several attempts to get it back, but cannot get inside Vector's base. After seeing Margo, Edith, and Agnes, three girls who live at a local orphanage and are selling cookies door-to-door getting inside the base, he adopts them to get to the shrink ray. Gru begins to bond with the three girls and finds something that he's been missing in his heart for a long time.I did like this movie though, despite some flaws, it was still worth the watch. It's the first half of the movie that really slows it down, but it did pick up. One of my favorite moments of the film was when Gru tries to steal the shrink ray away from him, I could have honestly watched a movie of just that the way they handled that heist. Also one part that killed me was when Gru takes the little girls to the carnival and they can't win a game so Gru takes out his ray gun and just blasts the game away. The story is still very clever, Gru and the little girls were great to watch. Now one character that let me down was Vector, I loved the idea of Gru having competition with this guy, but Jason Segel was not the right voice. I would have preferred a more nerdy voice, maybe even a little Bill Gates, Jason's voice was too deep and didn't seem to fit. Also his father, who is the owner of the evil bank and denies Gru his loan was a little too basic and something that has been seen before. I would say this movie is a matinée price, because while not being a great movie, it was still very cute and worth the watch. I just wanted it to be a bit more clever, but like I said, I'm spoiled, I need Dreamworks to up the bar.6/10
(Note that this review was written by a teenage girl, I'm no movie critic.)When my grandma invited me to go see Despicable Me with my cousin, I hesitantly obliged. From what I had seen, this was just another crappy movie. Walking out, I had a smile on my face, and I knew I was completely wrong about it.Despicable Me was a story about Gru, a broad shouldered, skinny legged man who wants to be the Worst Villain Ever. Unfortunately, he's not that great at villainy. All he can manage to steal is Las Vegas stuff. (Super valuable, Gru.) And make thousands of little goggled minions.But then: AN IDEA! Gru can steal. . . THE MOON! Such a wonderful act of awfulness! It's so awful that you should go see the movie yourself. The rest consists of three orphan girls named Margot, Edith and Agnes (Aren't little girls adorable with old lady names?), dance recitals, an orange- clad (teenager? young adult?) named Victor--ahem. I mean Vector, a few unicorns, and lots of love.Don't be too doubtful, just go see it. If you hate it, remember not to take my advice again.
Despicable Me tells the story of Gru a master villain who just hasn't made a major splash. Some other major villain just did a big job and now he sets his sights even higher. In order to accomplish this he needs something his arch-enemy has and find the only way to get it is to employ 3 little orphans who can get inside his lair by selling cookies.The movie goes exactly where you think it will and some the jokes fall flat, but at its core is good feeling story of redemption and parental love. There is something for everyone in this. I took my wife and 4 kids (11,8,4 and 4) and everyone loved it. It's not perfect though. Some jokes just were not that funny to me (although a lot of people in the theatre were laughing at them). I also didn't see it in 3D and it looks like it would have been fun to watch in 3D. During the credits they add stuff just for the 3D that is over the top 3D. It looked like that would have been fun.I recommend it at a 8/10. Kid friendly. Grown up entertaining. Heartwarming. Exciting. Not bad for $5 on a Thursday.
But, I was wrong!!!This movie was way funnier than I expected. From the post-opening scene where Gru demonstrates his 'villainy' by popping some little boy's balloon animal (after making it for him!). To the semi-predictable-yet-no-less-happy ending.Of course, it's Gru's loyal Minions who provide the most laughs. Not only with their physical appearance (sort of a mutant cross between a potato and a banana). But, also with their clumsiness...and a set of falsetto voices that make them sound like they've been snorting helium!I'm not a parent, myself. But, if some of you reading this are, and some of your older kids think they're too big for TOY STORY 3? Then, take them to see this movie. It'll be more fun than a barrel of Tom Hanks' monkeys!
Despicable Me is a cute and funny movie that can show that even the baddest of people can still have a heart. Gru (Steve Carell) is an evil villain who lives in a suburban neighborhood, when a villain steals the Pyramid of Giza, Gru wants to top it by achieving the greatest crime of all:Stealing the Moon, but in order to do that he must steal a shrink ray in order to shrink the Moon, but a new villain named Vector (Jason Segel) steals the ray from Gru so he can steal the Moon so now the device is in Vector's house so he can't get it so what does he do? Gru then adopts three little girls from an orphanage so he can use them to trick Vector in order to get the ray back, but before that happens Gru has to look after the girls and over time even the villain's heart starts to melt. The movie has a fair share of laughs most of them come from Gru's minions (adorable Twinkie-like little people who talk in their own language.) The voice cast is spot on with Will Arnett, Kristen Wiig, Russell Brand and Julie Andrews (who voices Gru's mother) round out the cast, Despicable me is funny and although the animation is not as good as a Pixar movie, it still stands on its own. This movie will tug at your heartstrings and I highly recommend it.
Based on from the trailers, i thought this movie was going to be knee cracker. When i saw this movie.. it made my day really happy. When you see Toy Story 3, it makes you cry and the story is dark. It is better to see this movie after Toy Story 3. The story was kinda stupid but hell, it's an animation. The stealing the moon part was really stupid. Another thing about this is that, there are mixed stories in the movie and there just going on at once. 1. Taking care of the girls. 2. Stealing the moon 3. Vector. You see? there are so many stuff going on at once. But this movie was insanely funny. Especially the yellow minions. When the credits are going on, there is going to be a funny part. It was funny but stupid. I'll give this movie a 8/10
They are never going stop, are they? Kids' movies, that is. Hollywood is going to keep churning them out year after year until one day someone stands up to say, 'I think we have had just about enough pandering to this market. The jokes have been cut, edited, rehashed, and remixed to fit every possible demographic. We have taken the imagery and 3D format to an all-time high. Let this sleeping dog lie for a while and go focus our efforts elsewhere.' I don't see it happening any time soon and I only saw a glimpse of the standard kids' movie formula deviating slightly in 'Despicable Me.' We are introduced to Gru (voiced by Steve Carell), the film's protagonist/ antagonist, right after a major landmark goes missing. The audience is supposed to deduce that Gru has a history of being an evil genius. No real example of his evil doings is given until he delivers a speech to his minions. He makes plans to get back on top after it is reported that another supervillain stole the major landmark. It's all about ego with these supervillains.Gru has a team of hundreds of little, yellow minions who speak in undecipherable chirps. They work in his laboratory and research facility. He also has a mad scientist, Dr. Nerfario (voiced by Russell Brand) that converts Gru's orders into actual working devices. There is a humorous downfall here. Nerfario doesn't hear the orders so well and the wrong items are developed.Gru is soon faced with an obstacle that is not part of the standard formula; he is a super evil power with money issues. The movie brings up a valid point: where do these guys get their financing? Out of all the superheroes and super villains in movies, I can't think of a time where this issue has been addressed. With the state of the economy being as it is, now is a good time for a movie to bring up money issues. The story breaks character and it's not about the kids at this point, Mom and Dad are now drawn closer to the story. They think, 'Hey that's right, I just paid $40 to get my family of four into this theater and I had to take out a second mortgage to pay for sodas and popcorn. I totally get what this guy is going through.' (Sorry for the dose of realism on the situation, but do the math, going to the movies isn't cheap).Gru meets with the Mr. Perkins (voiced by Will Arnett), the president of the Bank of Evil, to ask for a loan. At the same time we are introduced to Vector (voiced by Jason Segel), Gru's soon-to-be arch nemesis. The back and forth quickly begins for power of a shrink ray. Gru needs the shrink ray to apply for his loan and to complete his plan to steal the moon. Vector just needs it to keep the story going. Vector was funny for about five minutes, as far as enemies are concerned, he is five years too late. His catch phrases and body gestures have been done over and over again in similar kiddy flicks. Like chewing bubble gum, the flavor didn't last for long.To keep the story going and to give the kids something to connect with we are introduced to three orphaned girls that Gru incorporates into his plan by adopting them. The orphans unknowingly help Gru break into Vector's fortress to steal the shrink ray back. After that plan goes accordingly, Gru tries to ditch them at an amusement park but after a day with the girls, he finds that his tough exterior is slowly being chiseled away by their childish antics and puppy dog eyes. It's cute, too cute. Couple that with the adorable mannerisms of the minions and we are talking about some serious charm. On the cuteness scale of 1-10 you can rate this at an 11 or 12. (These minions will also be great plush toys, which means Mom and Dad's trip to the movie just tacked on a trip to the toy store and another $30.) Once Gru takes a liking to these three orphans the conflict between him and Vector climaxes. Mix in the fact that the date of Gru's evil plan coincides with the dates of the orphans' dance recital. Lastly add a dash of change-of-heart-syndrome to the final scenes. Have you heard this one before? I have a feeling you know how it will end.Should you see this movie? I think you already have. But, see it again for the minions; they do bring a new, fun feel to the story line. Put the kids in the car; fill up on $3 per gallon gas; stop for dinner on the way to the theater, $50; enjoy the movie in 3D, $40; buy the toys, $30; and enjoy the time with the kids because it is all new to them. Priceless.
I usually only write reviews of movies which I particularly like. But 'Despicable Me' provoked me to ask: Did you ever have the feeling that after seeing one movie made in Hollywood, you've seen them all? The cast, the music and the setting vary of course, but the storyline is somehow always the same. This is one of those VERY standard movies that makes you wonder if a script is actually being written after a great deal of brainstorming and creative discussion or if it is just being copy-pasted from the last blockbuster. 'They liked 'Mrs. Doubtfire' and 'The Incredibles' - now, let's put the two together!' The only good thing about the film was the animation and the voice-overs. The soundtrack is terribly outdated (think 70ies), and the story is zero - literally - I've heard stories from 5-year-olds with much more fantasy and innovation.
'Despicable Me (2010)' is one of the most passive cinematic experiences I've had in a long time, with the franchise bleeding into itself to the point where it's genuinely difficult to tell which of the various 'bits' come from which of the three films. It's this lack of engagement that kills any real enjoyment, let alone emotional attachment, that could be found here. On the positive side, there are a few jokes that successfully land even though the humour is generally quite broad. There's also something to be said for the relatively believable and complete central character arc. Plus, the feature is generally well-made, even though it looks cheaper than most animated fare from the time. Some things are still just off, though, like how the feature struggles to establish spatial orientation or how the primary relationship wildly fluctuates from scene to scene, almost to the point where it feels like some sequences have been shifted retroactively. This is frustrating and makes it hard to become invested in its evolution, and the evolution of the relationship really is the cornerstone of the entire piece. Additionally, you can't forget that this is the feature that birthed the endlessly annoying pop-culture phenomenon that are the 'minions', so perhaps it can't be forgiven for that. 5/10
'Despicable Me' has what has become an almost unheard quantity in an age where sequels, prequels, reboots, TV to movie transfers, video game to movie transfers and children book to movie transfers -- originality. Unfortunately, it doesn't have much more than light entertainment value to go with the creativity. Steve Carell voices the hero-villain Gru with a Russian accent for reasons that seem related to perhaps Steve's feeling that he had to do something to earn all the money he was making for the voice work. There didn't seem to be anything in the plot that necessitated that Gru be Eastern European. Jason Segel voices Vector the villain-villain, a character who is nearly wholly uninteresting. The 3 children who eventually soften Gru's heart (oh, like you were unaware how this would end!) are cute but ultimately forgettable and actually a little whiny. Gru's allergy pill-shaped minions are not that cute either and also a little whiny. Like Gru's accent no explanation is offered as to just what the hell they are supposed to be. The movie tilts a little at trying to be more than just a summer popcorn movie by given some insight into Gru's mother's lack of sympathy but the backstory would have made much more sense if she was the father instead. There is also some hinting at larger issues with Gru representing old-fashioned Victorian-house owning villainy and Vector representing sleek, modern space pod-house villainy but it never really goes anywhere. There are some laughs particularly a sign underneath the one announcing 'The Bank of Evil' where Gru tries to get a loan indicating that it used to be called 'Lehman Brothers' but they generally of the slight smile and giggle variety. In short, if there is a heat wave near you and you have kids this is a reasonable way to get come air-conditioning and darkness time in.
Last Saturday, I managed to watch Despicable Me. Yeah I know that it isn't new for it was shown last year.I still decided to write a short review of it though I KNOW it's already late.Well it really moved me and I just wanna share some of my thoughts about it.I believe Despicable Me is among the best animated features of 2010. Yeah I know Toy Story 3 is great but this film definitely deserves a watch too.But before mentioning the good sides of the movie. Here's some weak areas from my observation.The story has some inconsistencies. Like when the kids were showed in their first sleep that they prayed first before sleeping but they were never showed praying again in the following sleep scenes.Vector was also a techy villain so I just can't figure out how he came up with the not-so-cool octopus gun invention, (I've read though that it was done purposely to come up with a scene close to a Jules Verne's novel).The presence of the minions was also kinda questionable for it isn't a monster or alien movie.However, considering the fact that it is a fun-filled animated feature, all those minimal errs are kinda excusable...hehe Now here are the strong points.I love this film for IT IS FULL OF LOVE.I love the characters in the movie too especially the very endearing Agnes. (She also reminds me of the lil girl from Monsters Inc.) The movie did not fail to show the right emotions. It was very accurate and very witty.In addition, the cinematography was nice, the sounds was just and the direction was splendid.One of the most remarkable scenes for me was the roller coaster ride which proves that great 3D rendering was done in the film. It kinda made me feel like I was in the ride too.I also love how the movie indirectly pointed out that we have let go of the bitterness in the past.This movie is definitely a good reminder that no matter how bad our past is we can still live a good life if we choose to.So as I end, I encourage everyone to watch the film if you haven't watch it yet.Very cute, funny and lovable. 8 out of 10 for me...
Another awesome animated movie to hit us movie-lovers in 2010.'Despicable Me' is a really nice movie, both in story and appearance. The movie is very colorful and superbly animated. There are so many little details going on in every scene, and it is just wonderful. I think it is great how far animation movies have reached by now. And there is somehow somewhat of a Tim Burton-feel to the way 'Despicable Me' looks like, I mean the way the characters look and such. Not that the style here is dark or semi-Gothic, but they bear some resemblance.The story of 'Despicable Me' is a warm story, of how the villain Gru's life gets turned upside down when he adopts Margo, Edith and Agnes for a scheme, but ends up thawing up his frozen heart. That is enough said about the movie plot, and it is all that need to be said actually. The story is fast paced and takes you on a roller-coaster of fun and excitement - and superb animation, of course. It is the type of story that will warm your heart and sink right in, probably one that you will have with you for quite some time actually.The impressive cast does a very, very good performance in their voice acting, and all characters have a lot of personality and quirky traits that you just want to see more and more of them. From the villainous Gru to the small yellow minions, you just simply love them all.I hadn't thought 'Despicable Me' would turn out as cool as it was, so I was thoroughly surprised when I watched it. If you haven't already seen this phenomenal animated movie, get your butt in gear and do so. It is definitely one of the better animated movies of 2010. Universal Pictures actually nailed it right on the head with 'Despicable Me'. Thumbs up, way up!'Despicable Me' can be enjoyed by adults and children alike. And it is a movie that should be on every movie collector's shelves.
For kids, Gru is an outlandish villain. More importantly, he has a fun and whimsy minion of little, yellow servants, perhaps another robotic creation of Gru's associate, Dr. Nefario (Russell Brand), or a cartoon species of some sort. They look like Twinkies with human features (little arms, little legs, huge eyes) and they wear worker outfits (protective glasses, blue overalls, work gloves). They mostly act like kids, but they are obedient to their boss, Gru.Gru shows all the signs of losing his touch. He was once a despicable villain, but now he's mostly grouchy and unsuccessful. He reacts negatively against things that annoy old people: he uses his freeze gun on other customers to get around waiting in lines, he threatens his neighbor about a dog dirtying the lawn, and he warns three little girls to avoid making any annoying sounds. The ultimate death blow is his failure to go green (he drives in the worst pollution machine on the road) and his failure to conform (his lawn is dead and his house probably violates every local law in existence). Mix his old age rage and anti-green offenses with a bit of dark demeanor, antisocial attitude, and mean mom, and you get the basics of his villainy.In other words, he's not very despicable as advertised. He wasn't nearly as funny as one might expect from the trailers and title of the movie, but it doesn't ruin the movie in the least. It still has lots of little witty details, funny side characters, and cool gadgets. No one truly expects him to be bad in a kids movie anyway. No doubt his character will pull in an audience looking for a bad guy in the star position, but it wouldn't necessarily be any greater than if a well known, nice superhero was the star (which is a common misconception: just look at the popularity of Spider-Man or Superman).Far funnier is Gru's adversary, Vector. Gru wants to shrink and steal the moon to regain his position as the greatest of all villains. However, he can't deploy his plan because Vector (Jason Segel), a ridiculous, inventor villain, laughs his way to stealing the shrink gun. Vector is a geeky, rich kid who, when he isn't one upping Gru by stealing the pyramids, invents worthless weapons or sits around watching TV. Perhaps someday he would get around to stealing the moon for his own glory (and lucrative prospects). He's much more despicable than Gru, and Jason Segel (his voice) makes him sound something like Jon Lovitz, an egoistic loon. He certainly doesn't make intelligent plans. Vector's great accomplishment is to have better results copying Gru's tactics and thwarting Gru's plans.Gru is just the opposite. Dark, serious, devious, he's a hard working, constantly scheming villain from the suburbs who's had bad luck. Steve Carell voices him with a menacing accent that he reportedly takes from a mixture of Ricardo Montalban and Bela Lugosi. But the truest and most villainous characters in the entire movie are the evil, underground bankers (named Lehman Brothers) that refuse to fund Gru's moon ploy unless they see the shrinking gun in his possession.Being him, Gru devises another plan to take advantage of Vector's weakness for cookies. He adopts three girls from an orphanage to distract Vector and try to steal back his shrinking gun. This sets in motion a typical story of his reversal from insensitive to sensitive, dark to colorful (his spacesuit becomes pink after the girls mix in their clothes with his), or, as the tagline says, 'superbad to superdad'. Some of these sequences are enjoyable, especially with Gru putting out bowls of food for the kids, and having to read them a bedtime story about kittens.The youngest of the girls, Agnes (Elsie Fisher, voice), is the funniest of the girls. She fearlessly dominates the relationship over Gru and his vicious pet. She's particularly funny at an amusement park, which not only gives the audience an easy thrill for the roller coasters on the big screen but also allows Agnes to win a unicorn toy and joyously exclaim, 'it's so fluffy,' with the amusement park game burning in destruction behind her.The various side characters around Gru were funniest. A few of the best jokes are at the expense of the little yellow minion sidekicks and Dr. Nefario, an old genius who has hearing problems (he mistakenly invents the wrong gadgets sometimes). The film also has its share of fun gadgets down in Gru's secret lab, including a NASA like mission control setup. It may disappoint some adults expecting a more humorous and evil villain, but it's very watchable, fun, and fast paced.The image quality of 'Despicable Me' didn't seem negatively impacted by the 3D treatment. The 3D was more enjoyable and noticeable than in 'The Last Airbender', but not so frequent that you get a huge advantage. The audience seemed to enjoy the film, but many of them had to stay for the credits since the yellow minion give a nice send off.
Every three minutes or so, 'Despicable Me' doles out cookies. They're alternately of the crispy, chewy or melt-in-your-mouth variety, but never crumbly or too sugary. This is just one way of describing the delights of this movie, its crunchy humor, richly textured animation and melt-your-heart recipe. Cookies happen to be a crucial device in the plot, the one that brings three little sisters and a super-villain together. They're unloved orphans from Miss Hattie's Home for Girls while he, Gru, is a heist artist of the first order who's in danger of losing his standing to an upstart geek (drawn with shades of Woody Allen). The villainous rivals start a madcap race to the moon to put the ultimate prize, literally, on the palms of their hands: the moon itself. In order to have any hope of winning, Gru maneuvers to adopt the trio. This situation is fraught with danger, namely the slide into triteness, and the predictability of the story's outcome could only be outweighed by clever filmmaking. By many a yardstick, 'Despicable Me' has beat the odds. Save for a cruel pointy nose, there's really not much particularly gruesome about Gru. Neither his menacing eyes, his SUV from hell nor freeze gun could terrify the younger kids in the audience, or even Agnes, the youngest of the orphans. 'Yeah, he's scary. Like Santa,' she says with a yawn. With a thick Transylvanian or Gothic accent that recalls The Count in 'Sesame Street,' Steve Carell's voice captures the put-on quality of Gru's gruffness and his frustration over the put-downs by his frigidly aloof mommy (Julie Andrews). Ms. Andrews is just one of the 'Despicable Me's' multicultural assets and sources of its insistent charm. Wry English humor is evident in many lines, written by Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio with understated wit and a sense of decorum. The only juvenile joke in the movie, about bodily functions, uses another four-letter word, 'dart'. And parents in the audience may recall some visual motifs from the James Bond movies, especially 'Goldfinger' and 'Moonraker' -- veddy English. To dupe Miss Hattie into letting him adopt the girls, Gru uses words dripping with false sentiment then butters her up by telling her that she has a face 'como un burro', Spanish for like a donkey, by implication, an ass. She doesn't speak the language and is completely taken in. France (where the French-voiced version is 'Moi, moche et mechant' -- Ugly and Mean Me) has provided the technical finesse. French directors Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud kept the story progression fluid and every technical and artistic business under control. A team of some 280 artists and technicians from Mac Guff Ligne worked on the finely-styled digital animation and design for over two years. Around 50 of them also acted out the parts. Mac Guff still doesn't measure up to the resources and inventiveness of Pixar, though. For instance, those much-publicized impish tube-like minions, cute as they are, may have only a slim chance to catch on in an overcrowded toy market. American audacity and feel-good cravings drive the storyline of 'Despicable Me.' The premise of the theft of the moon, the giddy roller-coaster sequence and the family-values sentimentality over Gru's failure to attend the orphans' ballet recital are vintage Hollywood. When Gru's mommy finally utters words of praise for him, slyly of course, he basks in the glow of the moment. The moon was his, no matter how briefly, and he has become a full- fledged dad, and son as well. That's three cookies for Gru, and a whole box of wholesome goodness for us.
The 3D concept was still making big business at the box office, and Pixar had the stronghold on the computer animated movie market, so Universal hyped up this movie for a while. Basically the real Great Pyramid of Giza in Egypt has been stolen, and there is news coverage to find the great master criminal who did it. In a regular suburban neighbourhood of white picket fences and roses is a single black house surrounded by dead grass, it belongs to wannabe master criminal Gru (Steve Carell). Hidden beneath the house is the large secret hideout where Gru, with his hundreds of short yellow pill-shaped characters known as the Minions, plans his next big scheme. To become the greatest master criminal of all, Gru has a master plan to puzzle the whole world, he plans to steal a shrinking ray, shrink the moon, and steal it from the sky. He does try to steal the shrinking ray, but the criminal responsible for stealing the famous pyramid, Victor, aka Vector (Knocked Up's Jason Segel) takes it from him. With the high security stopping Gru taking the shrinking ray back, he has an idea to get in, by adopting three orphan children, Margo (Miranda Cosgrove), Edith (Dana Gaier), and Agnes (Elsie Fisher). He spots them selling their sweets, biscuits and cakes to Vector without any problems, and he wants to use this to his advantage to get into the Vector compound. It takes Gru a while to get anything done to get the plan on the road, as the three orphans are very needy and annoying, this is frustrating both him and his sidekick Dr. Nefario (Russell Brand). As time goes by and he does spend more time with the children, Gru finds himself becoming very fond of them and almost forgetting the plan completely. Gru does manage to get the children into Vector's house, and with the help of some cookie robots and some of the Minions, he does get the shrinking ray, but he doesn't convince the bank of evil manager about his plan. Gru gets the funding instead from all the Minions, and it finally comes to the night where the moon is in the best position to shrink and steal it. However, it is on the same night as the three girls dance recital, and after the moon plan does succeed and the tides go out of control Gru finds out that Vector has taken the children. In the end, Vector is defeated when the moon grows back to its normal size and he stuck on it back in space, and Gru has completely changed his opinion of the children, becoming surprisingly nice. Also starring Dame Julie Andrews as Gru's Mom, Will Arnett as Mr. Perkins, Danny McBride as Fred McDade; Pierre Coffin, Chris Renaud, Jemaine Clement as the Minions and The Hangover's Ken Jeong as Talk Show Host. Carell with his mixed accent makes Gru a great anti-villain that you can both like and dislike, and the Tic Tac looking Minions all bring out their lovable individual personalities very well. It is a simple story using a James Bond style villain and slowly turning him against type, the animation is as good as a Pixar picture, the gadgetry is both cool and funny, and the visual jokes make for fun viewing, so it is a good family comedy. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Animated Feature Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Animated Film. Very good!
Went to see this with my partner and not really knowing much about it I was just hoping for a reasonably entertaining experience. On entering the cinema we were presented with 3d glasses and a free bag of popcorn (nice touch), this was a screener so probably a one off and not to be expected again.The place was packed with kids and I must admit I did have some misgivings at first but once the film started I realized how wrong I was , this is the kind of film that must be watched whilst surrounded by hordes of laughing children.The animation was very well done and so was the story line, the jokes were easily understood by all and overall the humor was fit for all ages, the 3D effects in most films usually rely on objects appearing to fly out of the screen directly at you but it was more subtle in this movie, which I find more appealing.I would recommend this film to anyone, with or without kids, it has great appeal to all ages, and stay through the end credits.And on a final note for anyone who like me is sure that the main character 'GRU' is familiar think back to the old comics 'Wham' and 'smash', remember Grimly Feendish.
Everything already said has been said. I caught this movie as a second choice today as what I wanted to see was not available. I was 'aware' of DM but the marketing never intrigued me to make the effort to see it. Toy Story 3 and Inhception are my 2 favs so far but this gave it a good run for top 2. My vision doesn't allow me to adjust to 3D well and I almost left during the previews. Thank goodness I didn't. Once the feature started my vision adjusted and thought the beginning sequence was odd and intriguing. On the visit to the Bank of Evil and you see the former title of the bank name I thought to myself this just might be for me.As I giggled myself silly from scene to scene I caught myself thinking about just how funny some of the earlier scenes were and when it was quiet in the theater I was still giggling. The very odd character story line yet familiar looking characters blended well from scene to scene. The pleasant surprise reminds me of when I saw the original 'jackass' movie. I had never seen the TV show and had a little familiarity with what it entailed. My son was too young to see it at the time and he was in another theater with his buddies watching something I had no interest in. 'Jackass' is simply that in a nutshell, however something struck a chord with me and my screwed up youth. Very stupid, very funny, yet highly entertaining. There were times I couldn't catch my breath from the insanity and i feel that same way with DM. Worth every penny and a very worthy 'Blindside'. Looking up the writers and directors I'm very impressed with the quality of what some 'newbies' to the biz have given us. I look forward to the future screenings of their work.
i've got to tell you that the standard of animation movies is really touching the sky. this movie is yet another addition to a number of really good animation movies in the last few years- 'toy story 3', 'wall-e', 'up' and 'kung fu panda' just to name a few. the plot of the movie is quite different as the main protagonist of the movie is in reality an anti-hero but never during the movie do you realise this. it has a bit of warmth, a little sweetness and off course, the emotional component but the greatest thing about the movie is its humor. in the whole running time of 1hr and 35 min, you find yourself laughing most of the times and the movie springs up some really good originality in the form of 'minions' and techie- air as well as road vehicles. the voice- overs of most of the characters are well done although gru's accent might appear sometimes as overdone. the only complaint i could have were a few clichéd moments of family bonding and the character of gru's mother. but over all, the movie is a real fun filled ride and a more than nice entertainer.
When the Summer of 2010 in movie-going goes to a close, most moviegoers will remember what movies they enjoyed the most. Among those movies was a surprise hit called 'Despicable Me'. Created by Universal's CGI animation studio, Illumination Entertainment, this is the struggling studio's first CGI film, and it delivers. The plot is original, the animation up there with other CGI studios, and the laughter plenty. The plot centers around Gru, a madman intent on stealing the moon from the sky with the help of his minions while taking care of his orphan kids. I saw this in 3D, and the 3D works well in this movie, even to the point when they make fun of it. Not as good as Toy Story 3 but the 3D and humor make up for it.
I love this movie. There are so many original elements such as the minions, such as the protagonist being a 'villain' and behaving like an anti hero and the girls, each one of them with their own personality.
I love how main or support characters in this movie are not just plain or generic, each one has a different style and mindset of their own and their influence on the main story.
The animation is delightful, the soundtrack is very good and the story is interesting and fun to watch.
A heartwarming yet humorous villain turned kind of sort of good guy. The storyline was the right amount of wacky. The characters were fun and adorable. Nothing not to love.
This cartoon once again proves that you are not afraid to tell old stories, you only need to have an old heart. What touches people is the little fun inside, little cute, little lonely, and everyone under the hard appearance longs for a warm heart.
Watched the movie in Netflix.Story and animation is great. It's a good movie you can watch with the whole family. Comedy is good.Animation lovers should not miss it.
This film is only funny and which a good visual but the story is not so good.The principal character is only mad.All the illuminations films has one final : MERCHANDISE, is not original and this film can not incluide minions and had an original story but minions had in her faces MERCHANDISE.So the only good thing in this film is the visual and the funny thing.
Thanks
The movie is hilarious, and Agnes and the minions are super cute. The film really steals the moon.
A kids film that's very much for the kids. Nothing wrong with that really, but there wasn't much there for even my fairly childish tastes. Some good invention, but the characters felt paper thin and the script a bit lazy. Perhaps I would have enjoyed it more had I seen it before the minions became so universal and tedious. A simple bit of fun, but probably not one I'd bother with again.
After pretty much working my way through all the Disney/Pixar animated films, 'Despicable Me' was my first venture into Universal territory. The filmmaking styles are most definitely different, although I would argue that Pixar still holds a big edge.For a basic plot summary, 'Despicable Me' tells the story of Dr. Gru (voiced by Steve Carell), a supervillian trying to stay on top of the supervillian world. While dueling with the young, up-and- coming supervillians, Dr. Gru gets involved with a trio of orphan girls who eventually lend him some basic humanity.Clearly, Universal utilizes a completely different formula than Pixar. Here, the animation is a little goofier and the action almost never ceases. A bit of emotion is still injected into the film, but nowhere near Pixar levels. In this case, the never-ending action gets a bit tiresome and the emotion is actually a bit too little, too late.Overall, however, 'Despicable Me' will entertain all children with its fast pace, quirky humor, and abundance of sight gags. For folks any older, though, it just doesn't measure up to the Pixar stable of emotional depth and all-ages humor.
At a time when we had the likes of 'Toy Story 3' and 'How to Train Your Dragon', a time when Pixar and Dreamworks ruled supreme (Pixar winning of course), along came Illumination Entertainment and gave us this supervillain animation.The plot is pretty unoriginal really, jumping on the over used superhero theme. A supervillain is getting old and rusty, losing his flare for evil, at the same time a younger new supervillain threatens his status. So he devises a plan to steal the moon, the greatest feat of supervillainy he can come up with. But in order to carry out this plan he must enlist (adopt) the help of three very young little girls.The whole superhero concept has been popular now for quite some time and in CGI animation its no different. Along with other similar flicks such as 'The Incredibles' and 'Megamind' the whole idea is beginning to feel a little swamped I can't deny. This film mainly centres on the supervillains point of view, how he lives, his daily habits, his job being an evil mastermind etc...a nice angle that was original until later in the year when 'Megamind' came out.At his side are an army of little yellow minions that look like old 8-bit video game characters not too dissimilar from Pac-Man. Now at first these little guys are quite amusing with their pratfalls, face slapping and general simple minded tomfoolery, but it wears thin fast. Their whole routine is the same all the way through the film and I'm sure even kids may tire of it. I'm not even sure what the hell they are suppose to be seeing as all other characters in this film are human.I really liked the initial idea of this film and the start, I loved Gru's big Gothic house squeezed in between a line of regular houses. I liked his outrageously over sized supervillain vehicle, his little demon-like dog and the interior of his lair which was like a cross between James Bond and Hammer horror. Lots of ingenious gadgets, secret doors/trap doors etc...in a thick Gothic German expressionist-like design.Unfortunately the film becomes way too sickly and sweet for me (yes I know its for kids mainly). After he adopts the three little girls and starts to realise he enjoys them being around, losing sight of his evilness, it just becomes quite lame frankly. The film isn't sure what it wants to be or where its going, even the humour begins to lag.In the end all we're left with is a semi decent animated film which does look glorious no doubt, but with a plot that can't decide which route to go down. None of the characters are particularly interesting or fun, Steve Carell doesn't help make the evil Gru any more memorable and the old scientist character that works with him is dreadful!. He's actually quite scary looking I think, plus with that awful cockney accent from Brand...utter fail.Very wishy washy kids film that struggles to keep you interested and in no way competes with the big guns. Clearly trying to be zany and full of fresh ideas but you can see its not really worked out, its not a bad film, its just rather flat and anti climatic. How on earth this film was popular I don't know, the sequel was no surprise but I just don't see the hype over this.5/10
I, together with my English Major class watched this movie. I am not a huge fan of animation and therefore when I heard what movie we were going to watch I lost interest. As the movie progressed I enjoyed the humour and the story line. Since i have a four year old sister I am always skeptical about what types of movies she watches, but after watching Despicable Me i can definitely see why adults also have an interest in animation. The best part was watching Him grow throughout the movie, going from villain to good guy. He seems very embarrassed to show the softer side of him and with that came humour. The minions I would say were his first children, as even though there are so many of them he knows each ones names. One of the best animations I have watched thus far, certainly unforgettable!
Clever, funny and with a sweet villain who shows that even the bad guys can have a change of heart and can become good. This sends a good message and is quite different from other movies, which portrays good and bad characters as absolutes.The minions and the dogs were hilarious!! There is a bit of cartoon violence, but it is definitely a laugh out loud film that everyone will enjoy.There is one grim aspect I have picked up on. The aspect of the way orphanages are run and how an adoption process is handled is quite grim.This may be offensive to adopted kids and orphans, however it is meant to be humorous.
Lovely, humorous movie about the underlying themes of 'belonging' and family. I thought that the movie brilliantly depicted these themes in a funny yet heartfelt way. Here, we actually find ourselves routing for the super villain; Gru and watch how his heart of stone, transforms into a marshmallow after the entrance of three adorable little orphaned girls. Emphasizing that so called ' bad people' can actually become good. The highlight of the movie for me, were the adorable minions,which I am sure everyone will enjoy, though they can not actually speak English, or are not humans, we find ourselves still being able to identify and understand them as well as feel with them. The movie was a fun watch and I would definitely recommend that you join in on the fun.
This movie is enjoyable for all ages. Though a lot of the humour is aimed at children, there are many moments that you, as an adult, will find yourself laughing out loud. Despicable Me has managed to to get the balance of entertainment for children and entertainment for the parents just right!The main character Gru (voiced by Steve Carell) is incredibly funny with his dark sense of humour. I thoroughly enjoyed watching Gru's character growths from a sadistic villain to a warm, loving dad. Its easy to understand why Gru is the way he is, when you see the neglect he received from from his mother as a child (one of the things that create this 3 dimensional character). His growth is the result of 3 sweet girls that he adopted ('that changed his heart'). Without these girls there would be no storyline. Gru's character shows us that no matter how bad a person is, they can always change. Despicable Me is light-hearted, enjoyable, funny, heartwarming, and even at times tear-jerking (only because I am a happy-cryer). It is possibly my favourite animation.With its range of characters -some lovable, others not-so-lovable - Despicable Me will leave you wanting more.
Despicable Me definitely deserves to be put into the Cute category. What's more heartwarming than a villain turned nice guy due to adorable kids? The movie had cuteness all over it between the minions and the kids. Sure, Gru (Steve Carrell) was a villain aspiring to be a mega-villain but that made the movie all the more lovable.The movie was alarmingly similar to Megamind which was released the same year but that tends to happen every few years. The plot was simple enough for anyone to follow yet clever. The voices were perfect fits and even the minion language worked great. I can see why Despicable Me is my daughter's favorite movie. I
A highly entertaining animated film. When I see an animated film, I am drawn to comparisons with the wonderful PIXAR films. This film takes many clues form those and packs it up nicely and gives a film which is entertaining and nice. I can simply say. it's a nicely done formulaic animated film. It's formulaic coz we have seen such stories, a normal getting acquainted with kids and then going overboard to keep them happy. This reminded me Monsters Inc and even Finding Nemo.The purpose is different and so is the approach, but the crux remains the same and yes there is wonderful animation to admire. The army of minions is a treat to watch. The films has some wonderful moments too, where we feel something, we root for Gru, the supposed best villain of the planet, voice given by Steve Carell. Also, there are moments of hilarious laughter, cannot simply mention one but many.Essentially, there is a hero and there is a villain, the hero wins over villain. As simple as that this film can be pigeonholed, yet it gives the humane touch of feeling for one's own kids. A bad human trying to be good with those he loves. These themes are embedded well into a rather clichéd script and they make it interesting. Although, I did not die for it, I can safely say I like it, maybe I will not get back to this film, but any kid who would watch this, will more or less appreciate it. But since we are now acquainted so many films that such themes and have great quality. Those aspects might be demeaning this film.All the way down, I was mostly comparing the film, let me take it as a single film, now I love it. I love many things about this. The detailing of the characters, their brow to legs and even that wonderful story of Gru and the ballet story. Nice, and wow.Only that since it makes me compare films and lets me down by some bit, I am going with 4/5. This film is surely like able and for a few it may be even wonderful. Perspectives differ, yet the content remains the same.
I was about 14 years old when I saw this film and it was in 2011. When I saw the movie on TV, I thought that it was a good movie. Also there were some hilarious moments, like the part where Gru is telling Mr. Perkins his plan for the moon heist and he's going through the papers and there's an illustration made by Edith showing Gru on the toilet, leading Gru to say, 'I sit on the toilet with the- wha?' Also the minions were funny too, not just Gru. One of the funny moments in the film is Josh on the photocopier scanning his rear and they're all laughing. I also love the part where Paul the Minion fights another minion over the keyboard and the crowd of minions chant, 'Fight! Fight! Fight! Fight! Fight! Fight!' Very funny. But still, the good music is also what makes it a good film. Throughout the movie, you may hear some music that matches the scene. Like when Gru discovers he loves the girls, the song that plays after the girls loan some of their money to Gru and he decides to build his own rocket out of stuff from the lab, a song plays and it's called 'Prettiest Girls' by Pharrell Williams. It's a really good song and when I first saw the film I liked it. And I still do to this day. So basically the movie has great music and the minions are also what make the movie entertaining and great (and awesome). I'd recommend this movie to anyone who hasn't seen it, really. Good film.
After such a wide success with a couple of animated films in the mid 90s and early 21rst century, a boom occurred in the full CGI animated family films and it hasn't stopped. Several productions have came into play and flourished and or fizzled. Recalling a couple franchises that fizzled was Shark Tale (2004) & Hop (2011). Unfortunately, along with the power of the technology, came the abuse of it. But just like Pixar, Illumination Entertainment put in a lot of effort and time into a family film that packs a punch for all ages.Despicable Me is the story of a troubled genius named Gru. Gru isn't truly evil, he just doesn't have much of anyone to care for. And like many other troubled characters, it is because of a rough childhood. Thus leading to hard times as an adult trying to connect with the outside world. Thankfully, with the help of three little girls, Gru learns more about himself than he ever thought he knew before. A good thing to note is that the writers to this movie have the experience. Cinco Paul & Ken Daurio have written screenplays for various animated films and directors. And along with the story come some very entertaining characters.And I think we all know what those characters are - the yellow skinned minions. As many know now, the minions are the mascot to the famed 'Despicable' franchise. With their innocent yet reckless nature and garbled language, the minions are the ones that'll have audiences rolling over the floors. But these aren't the only characters that make the movie fun. The main voice actors do a great job as well filling in their roles. Steve Carell as Gru was a perfect casting choice. Gru's assistant, Dr. Nefario voiced by Russell Brand was also a great achievement. I didn't even realize it was him until the credits rolled.Along with them are Jason Segel who plays another villain named Vector, Will Arnett voices the head of bank and many others. It's interesting to try and figure out who voices who because the characters are masked so well. The animation and score to the film produced by Heitor Pereira and Pharrell Williams is well executed too. Each scene represented the right emotion and had a consistent tone. Though I would have preferred to hear a main theme. It probably would have made the film even more memorable.The voice cast is awesome which makes the characters likable allowing the comedic moments to bring out the fun in the movie. Many people will consider the minions to be the best part.
It's funny how you avoid certain movies for while simply because you get a somewhat bad vibe from the previews that tells you that you probably wouldn't enjoy it.It happens to me a lot.Very often,I come around to finally giving it a chance.Sometimes my initial premonition turns out to be correct,and then there are a few films,such as in the case of Despicable Me,where I end up being pleasantly surprised.In the character of Gru,we see a 'villain' seemingly bent on world domination.We get some insight on why he became evil in the first place,then we see him get sidetracked by three adorable little girls.Then,slowly but surely,some goodness bubbles to the surface as he realizes that he has a chance to give to these three children what he never received as a child.Love.A very sweet,evil story.
I saw this in the cinema three years ago when I could watch it in 3D, the best part with that effect being the roller coaster scene. Re-visiting this film today I had the same feeling about it as 'A Turtle's Tale: Sammy's Adventures' by enjoying the 3D version more but I still found it as creative and funny as ever.The animation standard is on the same level as Pixar and Dreamworks CGI films with oddly-designed yet appealing characters, original weapons, a combination of modern, retro and futuristic backgrounds, some clever uses of colour such as Vector's orange suit matching his couch and other belongings and some realistic elements such as the moon and the pyramids despite the one Vector stole being thinly disguised amongst the sky. The story has an original concept of a villain as a protagonist in a similar manner to 'Megamind,' although the opening scene of the soft pyramid looked as if belonged to a different film altogether. While the girls' names are old-fashioned, they have their own personalities (the smart Margo, the tomboyish Edith and the adorable, unicorn- loving Agnes) and make the film worthwhile. The musical score is powerful and reminds me of the sort of music one would hear in a spy or mystery film. It even includes hints of disco music. Other aspects that made this film worth watching were the minions (they were all funny and in my favourite colour yellow), Dr Nefario's misunderstandings of Gru's demands (boogie robots instead of cookie robots for example), the 'Annie' reference, the use of the famous Wilhelm scream when Gru's mother hits the punch-bag and sends the instructor flying and the hilarity of Agnes puckling her cheeks when she asks if it counts as annoying. There was also an element of visual trickery with Edith briefly becoming trapped inside Gru's iron maiden along with other dark moments such as Miss Hattie keeping girls inside the Box of Shame and Gru leaving out food and water bowls as well as newspaper for a toilet for the girls because he perceives them as animals to begin with. Some parts of the film were slow and initially forgettable but these are balanced by the stronger scenes I have already mentioned. While Steve Carell seemed unrecognisable, he played his most unique role yet as Gru while Russell Brand was superb as Dr Nefario and Julie Andrews was a pleasant surprise as Gru's mother. The voice actresses for the girls did a solid job as well, especially Elsie Fisher as Agnes.In spite of this film being more enjoyable in 3D, it still entertained me and I hope to see the sequel soon. 8/10.
It would seem a simple idea be original , putting the center of opposition to the two villains of the story for the title of best of the best , in itself rather dubious move , but elaborated by small , but significant, details of the story came out incredibly exciting and spectacular entertainment. Cartoon- attraction in all its glory , with the sea of humor and a huge positive charge .When complexes of the main character ( as a 'hero' villain not bring myself to call it) going through the roof , and after the loss of the pyramids , he decided not insane kidnapping moon light prologue begins to blossom rich storyline, humorous lethal component and eye pleasing 3D- effects, of which there are simply not count! And in the middle of titles begins and does almost the main stage - tradition benefit minions. The latter, by the way, here are the most vivid characters , impressing and delighting much stronger than Gru and orphans together , so that at least for the little yellow servants have fun is to go on this wonderful cartoon .The story with the correct morals swift flowing stream of positive colorful paints and joyful emotions , this cartoon, which gives happiness , which takes its charm and makes you laugh till you drop diverse comedic skits . In this adventure, nice everything from content to form , each element is perfectly laid out , all of which is an absolute delight !Spectacle for the whole family, where everyone will be able to find something close and clear , and at the same time and get a portion of good mood. Cartoon talk about the importance of the priorities of work and family, please huge amount of three-dimensional flirting with the audience, and just tell an interesting story about humanity. And these amazing masterpieces is too little to lose sight of them . And it's a great animation creation is sure to find a place in the heart of the viewer !
The day I showed 'Despicable Me' to my daughter was the day we knew we had a new favorite movie. Now there's Minion paraphernalia all over the house, she's quoting lines left and right and I'm not even sure how many times she and I have watched this movie. But that's just the sort of film this is; the kind that sneaks up behind you, worms its way into your heart, and before you know it, it's all around you. Everything about 'Despicable Me' from the voices (Carell nails it here), the action, cool songs and winning sense of humor (the Looney Tunes-esque violence of the Minions, the satirical jabs at American culture) is just spot-on. But most of all, it's the endearing sentiment at the core of the movie that shines. Just loads of heart. This is an all-around winner, full of heart, talent and sentiment. My whole family loves this movie.9/10... Also, can anyone honestly say they knew that was Russell Brand as Dr. Nefario? Anyone? 'Cause I've never been a Brand fan, and he almost steals all of Nefario's scenes. One of my very favorite voices in an animated movie.
Animated films aimed at younger children seem to have a dual audience, the kids and the adults. This film succeeds on both levels. (I currently use Up! as part of my media course, but Despicable Me is a close 3rd - The Lion King, a 2nd) I am biased, unashamedly so, but the stand- out for me in this dizzying film, ending with a sense of belonging, and acceptance / redemption, dotted with wit, throw-away lines, aha moments, and emotional connectedness, is Julie Andrews, who voices the terrible mother, with aplomb and a good accent. She, in an essentially supporting role, is excellent. And the main voices are equally as good!! See the film: it is well worth it.
Despicable Me is the first feature film for Illumination Entertainment and it was a hit in 2010, a popular film for families and has made the minions a very popular pop culture creation.In a world of sci-fi and supervillains a new villain, Vector (Jason Segal) announces himself by stealing the Great Pyramid of Giza. Gru (Steve Carell), an older supervillain has had his thunder stolen and to reclaim his position as top dog by planning the biggest heist in history, by stealing the moon! But to do this Gru needs a shrink ray and he has formed a rivalry with Vector who steals it off Gru after he stole it from the Chinese. But Gru is not a villain who could be kept down for long and plans to steal the shrink ray by adopting three orphan girls, the sharp witted Margo (Miranda Cosgrove), the tomboyish Edith (Dana Gaier) and the innocent Agnes(Elsie Kate Fisher). Despite Gru's ambitions he slowly starts to warm to the girls.Despicable Me is basically a cross between a Saturday morning cartoon and the Looney Tunes. The film has the design of a Saturday morning cartoon, the lair, the weapons, the design and the plot. Many of the designs of the vehicles and the weapons were overblown and felt like something a 10-year-old boy would create, and I am saying that as complement. There is a clear influence from Pixar's The Incredibles in its design and the music which borrows some Bond ques and basic set up and there are some parallels to Megamind (which was released in the same year) about a villain who finds his good side.The style of humour is very physical and visual: there are plenty of slapstick humour, particularly involving the minions and their bickering and the experimentations on them. One great example is early on in the film is when Gru tries to break into Vector's home/lair which looked like it could have been a Looney Tune short. There are some verbal jokes and The Bank of Evil offers the only real cultural/political joke.The script itself is screen writing 101, the structure is predictable and Gru is a typical character who a dream he thinks he wants (i.e. stealing the Moon) and what he really wants is a family. His dream during the film changes as he realises what is really important to him. The film does do a good job at setting up why going to the Moon is so important to Gru and it is more then just make a name for himself.Like most animated films these days Despicable Me has a big name cast. Carell was solid as Gru, giving him an ambiguous Eastern European actor. He gave us a character who does changes during the film. Russell Brand was surprising good as Gru's scientist and friend, his voice was unrecognising and he was funny throughout. There are strong supporting characters played by Kristen Wigg and Will Arnett but Segal was a disappointment as he felt like he was just playing teenage Marshall from How I Met Your Mother. Also Julie Andrews' casting as Gru's mother was pointless seeing she was only in the film for three screens.The girls were very well defied with the personality and felt more like real children in the context of this world. This is especially the case for Margo as she acts as the leader of the girls but still acts as a child when she is around Gru. But I would have thought Edith would want to take her hat off sometimes.Despicable Me is a fun and enjoyable film for the whole family. There is plenty of slapstick humour and fun designs and whilst it is a simple affair it does not patronises children.7.5/10
This movie is one of my favorites of all time, even though I'm only 13 years old (I love movies; I watch at least a new one every day during the summer! Don't try that at home.). Some of the jokes are a bit childish, but I found myself laughing at those the hardest. The characters are lovable and cute, but the plot is not very original, and that is why I did not give it 10 stars. However, this movie keeps you smiling, and very few movies nowadays are able to do that. I am constantly quoting lines from this film, and searching up my favorite scenes on YouTube. An excellent lesson, cute characters, and humorous jokes are what make this movie what it is - AWESOME! And definitely worth your time!
I seem to remember this getting a fairly patchy response from the critics when it came out probably all that 3D nonsense. Fortunately I managed to avoid all that by waiting for it to appear on TV in the correct number of dimensions for the screen. As for the film, well I really enjoyed it! Likable characters, a nice plot and some great comic moments who could ask for more!? I'll give you further thoughts after this brief summary.Gru is a villain, he's been a villain for a long time, but now his evil deeds are being superseded by much younger up-and-coming villains. He's not happy, even his mother finds him a bit of a disappointment, but he has a plan. It's a very cunning and dastardly plan, but he'll need to steal a shrink ray gun and borrow some money from the bank first. He steals the ray, but it's stolen from him by a young upstart villain called Vector. Gru tries to retrieve it but cannot gain entry to his compound. Seeing three orphan girls get in by selling cookies, Gru forms another plan. He goes to Miss Hattie's Orphanage and adopts the three girls; Margo, Edith and Agnes. His plan: to get them into the compound so he can plant something there that will allow him to gain access to the ray gun. His many minions and Dr. Nefario help him with this clever scheme and it is a success but the girls have other ideas about Gru and, it seems, they just might be turning him away from his ultimate goal To steal the ****! Oops, hope I didn't say too much there Sorry Spoiler Police I, I'll come quietly.As I've already said, I enjoyed this film very much, it must me my kind of humour or something, but there were far more 'laugh out loud' moments (for me) than usual. The animation was very well done, I'd go so far as to say it was almost up to Pixar standard. I loved Steve Carell as the voice of Gru, his Russian accent was hilarious. Also worthy of note were the voice talents of; Jason Segel as Vector, Russell Brand as Dr. Nefario, Julie Andrews as Gru's Mom, Will Arnett as Mr, Perkins, Kristen Wiig as Miss Hattie, Miranda Cosgrove as Margo, Dana Gaier as Edith and Elsie Fisher as Agnes.One of the things I like to write about when reviewing a film is how it makes me feel. Well, this film did pull at the heartstrings a little, but much more than that it made me laugh. It's definitely one I will re-visit at some point because I'm sure there are many subtle little jokes I missed first time around. Whether you're young or slightly older (like me), I'm sure you'll get some laughs out of this one It's not perfect, but I very much enjoyed it nonetheless Recommended.My Score: 8.4/10.IMDb Score: 7.5/10 (based on 68,835 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes Score: 81/100 (based on 187 reviews counted at the time of going to press).
Animations are never my first choice of movie genre, but i must admit Despicable Me was not only entertaining but hilarious indeed.So the narrative centres around Gru, an evil genius who only wants to win the affection and love of his mother, something which he has never been able to achieve. His only friends in life are Dr Nefario, an ageing scientist and his army of minions. When Vector, a mysterious newcomer to the evil genius world steals the Great Pyramid of Giza, Gru decides that its time pull off the most memorable crime in history; by stealing the moon. Three orphan girls soon become entwined in the story, and although there in no initial relationship with the girls other than for his own selfish needs, Gru soon becomes a father figure.What makes this film so enjoyable, is that its not only for kids. It has several gags and one liners designed for an adult audience. My favourite being when Gru goes to visit 'The Bank', and under the sign it says 'formly known as the Lehmann Brothers.' The animation is done well, and the music which accompanies it, helps to move the narrative along. The music is also quite modern, which helps to give the film a contemporary twist, which is something i don't really expect from an animation.The stars of the film for me are in fact the minions. They are just comical in their actions and lack of words. I especially liked the floating minion who appears again right at the end.Despicable Me is a light hearted animation, filled with unique and surprisingly funny characters. Although the plot and themes portrayed in the narrative are not original, it is definitely worth the watch.
In an attempt to pull off a job that gets him noticed in the world of criminal villains, Gru comes up against plucky young rival 'Vector', who is very well equipped to say the least. In trying to steal a device from Vector, Gru adopts three young girls so that he can get robot cookies into Vector's lair. However, as successful as this is, he is still now legally parent to three girls – made all the more challenging by the fact that they are starting to grow on him, even if it is just a little bit.Years ago, I started writing down my thoughts on films in an attempt to try and put more thought into what I liked or didn't like about them; too often I would come out of the cinema and be asked what I thought only for me to say 'yeah, it was OK I guess' and nothing more. So mostly now I try to have more to say than just that. Of course sometimes it is hard because the truth is that some films are just 'OK I guess'. Despicable Me is another of the animated films that Pixar have helped to create by virtue of their success and it is one such film because it will not stand for the ages and it isn't as strong as Pixar can do (the most obvious comparison is the much better The Incredibles) but it is still a perfectly fine little film that amused and pleased me while I watched it despite me being unlikely to ever have to watch it again.The story is a simple enough one in which a villain finds a heart through three small children, it was always going to happen but I guess this is part of watching the film. Fortunately within this plot there is plenty that is funny, cute or cute and funny. Although it feels a little like ideas from other places, the project is still quite clever with good comic timing and imaginative touches that generally made me laugh. Plus I am a sucker for the cute – the little yellow creatures were a hoot and the three children were a constant delight to me with 'It's so fluffy' being my favourite line of the film by about a million miles. This charm carried it for me because otherwise it isn't quite as smart or as cleverly funny as I would have liked – the adult jokes in particular tended to feel more 'inserted' than being part of the film in the way Pixar (sorry for mentioning them again) do so effortlessly.Carell's voice work is pretty good. At first I thought it was a shame he is sort of hidden behind that accent but actually he makes it work well. Those doing the kids voices also work very well – getting the levels right to be cute and funny – even those that dislike children will be won over by these three (which I guess is key to the story and the film when you think about it!). I didn't think Brand was well cast – his accent stands out too much and his character and his voice didn't match up for me in the way it did for others. The supporting voices have some good names but none of them really stood out or ever threatened to distract from Carell in the lead.As an adult, Despicable Me is 'pretty good'. It isn't brilliant and it tended to remind me of other films and other ideas but it has enough laughs, enough cute and enough charm to easily entertain. Children will love it and, while not Pixar (sorry!) adults will find themselves quite charmed by it as well.
Despicable Me is a fun film. It is a simple story coated with wonderful moments, and characters that are pleasing to watch. From Gru with his aim to become the most evil villain in the world to his eccentric but utterly lovable Minions (a great creation).Giggles, and there are lots of them work through a certain subtlety. The moving of a characters face, voice or body (special mention to the Minions)or the sweet scene stealing 'Unicorns I love them' Agnes really does work. When Despicable Me does try with a more slapstick, or crash, bang wallop it does full a little flat. Arch-nemesis Vector and Gru's assistant Dr. Nefarious are at times in Despicable Me a little weak. Indeed it is Gru but more so the orphan girls and Minions that we want to see. I must mention the animation which is very good and well-brought to life but also the musical presence in the film, as I really noticed it. The music is rather modern and funky for an animation, and gave for me a contemporary twist, which I enjoyed. I admire Despicable Me for its simple yet highly creativity tale. There are many scenes that are highly memorable and you would have to have a heart of steel not to be touched by the manner it draws the film to its loving and charming conclusion.
It seems to me that with every year we get smarter, funnier animated features. Those just for the kiddos, and those for kids and adults alike. Despicable Me is amusing for all ages. I love a good change of heart plot. In Despicable Me, the hilarious Steve Carell voices Gru. Gru is an evil genius of sorts who is being shown up by someone who keeps getting to all of the good heists before he can.In an effort to get the spotlight back, Gru goes to the bank to get a loan for his newest project: shrinking and stealing the moon, of course. While at the bank we meet Vector. Vector (Jason Segel) is obnoxious and appears immature and incapable of being a great villain.After being turned down by the bank, Gru discovers that Vector is miraculously the one behind the latest great heists. In order to infiltrate Vector's lair, Gru seeks out the girls he saw selling cookies at Vector's house. They live in a local orphanage and are adopted by Gru to carry out his master plan.Margo, Edith, and Agnes (Voiced in order by Miranda Cosgrove, Dana Gaier, and the extra adorable Elsie Fisher) come to live with Gru and you can imagine what happens then. Picture it: three young girls in the house of an evil genius. With weapons, ray guns, potions, and trap doors at every turn there is plenty of mischief for them to get into.Let's not forget the minions. The minions are many and they are all over the place causing trouble and acting as guinea pigs to Gru and Dr. Nefario (Russell Brand) as they build their rocket ship.Despite his best efforts, Gru starts to become attached to the little girls. Particularly enjoyable is the scene where Gru takes the girls to an amusement park. Agnes, who had a little stuffed unicorn that was disintegrated when the girls arrived at Gru's house, sees another, much bigger stuffed unicorn and shouts 'He's so fluffy I'm gonna die!' I hope I'm not ruining anything for anyone, but Gru wins the unicorn for little Agnes.Adorable, I know.No kids movie would be complete without some sort of gas-passin' joke. This one comes in the form of a gun that when fired emits a large greenish cloud and makes a farting sound, to which Gru says 'I said dart gun, not' well, you get it.With laughs, warm fuzzies, bad guys, cute kids, and little green minions, Despicable Me gets the recipe for a great animated film just right. Bon Appétit!(www . mssilverscreen . com)
First off, where on earth did Steve Carell pull this performance from? Sure he's great in the office and I really like the guy. But here we have such a powerful performance from him in voice only that just doesn't sit well with anything I've seen him in before. He went from a funny guy that you can't help liking to a powerhouse of a performer dragging you by the scruff of the neck into the movie. I loved the voice he came up with for Gru so much. Everyone else puts in just faultless performances too. Russell Brand isn't a fave of mine, I avoid movies he stars in, just not my cup of comedy tea but he's superb here. Even bit parts like the fat Texan? lady that runs the girls home, the performances were superb.And then we have the animation itself. I'm not sure whether it's the software that just took a technical leap in 2010 or not but the animation here is just Pixar perfect. You cannot fault it on any level. Everything from the imaginative, colourful set design, the brilliant character designs and the silky smooth emotion rich animation itself, it all just impresses the hell out of me.The story while simplistic enough for younger children to follow, has such warmth and heart that you really can't poke holes in it either.I adored this film and fell in love with the minions, the little girls and Gru. I'd happily have minion plushies on my couch and I'm an old fart of a guy. I keep saying 'It's so fluffy!' to people and they look at me like I'm mad. I care not, they will eventually learn the line from the movie and if not, well there loss.Recommended for anyone who has a heart, a love of animation or just digs really well made comedies.
I admit I didn't like the title, but the trailers to Despicable Me did look like fun. I have no excuse on why I missed it in theatres, but dang, I wish I had seen it there.This was a wonderful movie, all around. Even the movie's shortcomings were overcome. Such as: old story at first glance, but enough twists and personal stamps to make it original and the minions ALMOST overstayed their welcome before the inevitable sequel – like what happened to Scrat in Ice Age: The Meltdown. They didn't, thank goodness, and were kept fresh, fun, entertaining and great to watch through to the end.You may not even like Steve Carell, but even here, in animated voices, he shows his comic genius and absolutely shows depth, much like what Robin Williams did in Aladdin.The world's full of super-villains, as this movie cleverly focuses on, and 'poor' Gru (Carell) is getting older and out-thieved by others so he schemes to steal the moon. Like that's been done before.Unfortunately for him, right when he's getting shut out by the evil bank – what bank isn't these days – and his peers, a new rival appears in the same mold, but creatively different, as Syndrome from Pixar's The Incredibles and three girls come into his life that need adoption. This also sounds like Pixar's Up, but they take it in a different direction.Sure, you know he'll grow to love the girls, but Carell (and the writers, of course – it is animated after all) does a wonderful job of showing the bond grow through deception – he needs them to penetrate his adversary, Vector's (Segel) not-so-secret lair for a device to shrink the moon.It's been awhile that I saw a movie that made me want to put on 'repeat' as Despicable Me did. And it wasn't a one-note film involving the cute and resourceful little, yellow minions that aid in Gru's plight. Sure, they were wonderful, as well, but as a whole, this movie is highly recommended to kids and adults. It's heartfelt, adventurous, absolutely hilarious, enormously creative and leaves you rooting for the bad guy. Let's hope they don't spoil the sequel with twice the number of minions forthere's already hundreds in this one.
Despicable Me's first quarter is average and didn't really hook me much. However, the rest of the film improves and throughout remains a very good animated film. Carrel is amusing, and the best parts of the film involve him interacting with the three orphan girls. We know what to expect from this film, but it still remains very satisfying and the end credits are a blast to sit through. The kids were laughing throughout the film, and it seems as of this is more of a film for them than us. There are also some very touching moments, so in that respect check this film out. It may not be as great as Toy Story 3 or even How To Train Your Dragon, but it is definitely a strong addition to this year as far as animation goes.
An animated feature that is not from Pixar, but is still really good? Yes it can happen! Despicable me might not have the values and depth of the movie 'Up' or other Pixar movies, but on entertainment value alone this does not have to hide behind any other movie. I was a bit skeptical, but the movie really got to me.Steve Carrell is adorable rather than frightening. And he does manage to walk the line between being cruel and a bit mean, but also still a nice and warm character. Kudos for writing him like that, but also for his voice performance (he does have an accent you see, one of his specialties apparently).You might have seen quite a few scenes in the trailer, but there is still quite a few things to discover in the movie itself. Fun and light, but still with a few punches here and there. Sweet and sour so to speak. Open yourself up to the movie and you will relish the experience!
OK seriously. This is now at the top of my animated film list. I laughed so much in Despicable Me it was ridiculous. coming from the girl who hates all this 3D blah, blah,blah - this one has to be seen in 3D. I was a little nervous about seeing this one because the overall plot is indeed redundant in use, but I was pleasantly shocked. Gru stole my heart from the very beginning. I loved Agnes before I ever saw the movie. The whole thing just works. My family and I are huuuge movie buffs. If we like a film, we'll quote it from here to kingdom come. If we dislike it, your simply mentioning it is reason enough for you to be kicked out of the room. My niece & nephew (both of whom are over 18) and I were quoting almost the entire movie right after we saw it. Definitely one for the DVD collection. I loooove this movie!!!!
Despicable Me is a great example of how good narrative pacing can make you fall in love with the oldest storyline in the universe--hard heart turns soft--all over again.Of course, it doesn't hurt that much else in the film is done well. The voice work is great, the writing is snappy, the direction is so good that I had to reflect a bit before realizing how good it was--great direction is a thankless task, by definition.Tho by now this frenetic, over the top style of computer animation is old hat, in DM it is still fun, fun, fun!Yeah, I shed a tear. I dug it. Check it out!
Though its materials are mostly cliché and have been used in Hollywood for a long time, Despicable Me delivers its high-class materials with charms, cute, and heartfelt style. Steve Carrell's voice performance is probably the better ones of voice performances I've seen in years. His cute minions also helped add to the film's quirkiness. Gru, a criminal mastermind voiced by Steve Carrell, was on his way to conquering the world when he ran into three orphan girls and adopted them. Margo, Edith, and Agnes was in a home since they can remember and being adopted by anyone at this point is a joy for them. But after staying with Gru for a day, the kids were horrified. After months of teaching and nurturing, the kids were able to get Gru to be nicer. The story progress with Gru choosing between his evil plan and his kids. It is heavily borrowed from other children films, but Despicable Me stabbed at the materials at a different angle and succeeded in bringing Hollywood something new. OscarBuzz: Best Animated Feature, I has a good chance of being nominated but winning is a long shot.
Despicable Me is one of the better animated movies released this year. I think the only ones better than this were Toy Story 3 and How to Train Your Dragon. This movie probably will be nominated for Best Picture at the Oscars but it will lose to Toy Story 3. Even so, this movie is a great movie to take the whole family to see.This is about some evil villain who adopts three young girls so they can help him thwart his nemesis plans on taking over the moon.The voice acting is pretty good. I could recognize the funny Steve Carell.This movie has plenty of laughs. Even though this is a kid movie, I laughed a few times. The little, yellow minions are really funny.Overall, this is a great movie to take your kids to see. I rate this film 9/10.
eh guys this movie is really awesome......... i saw this movie twice.... its worth watching coz its really very very funny........ i mainly love that small cute gal.. she is sooooo sweet adorable a bit mischievous too.... the story is really nice...... cooooool 3D too.... story is simple.. its abt a fight between 2 main villains who Will do anything to become a super villain....... Gru who is a former super villain has plans of stealing the Moon since his enemy Vector has stolen the pyramid of Giza (which he comes to know later). for that he adopts 3 cute gals, first for getting the shrink ray....... but later he gets nice feelings or affection i would say, towards the gals......... later how he makes a rocket, shrinks the moon & save the gals from Vector lies the whole plot...... i love the 3D part.. really its done well.. its a must watch movie.... humor part has been done really well.. frnds trust me this movie is worth watching many times, u Will never get bored at all..
I felt this was a very poorly done movie. It is especially disappointing to me because when I saw the commercials, I felt it would be a good movie to take my younger sisters to. Unfortunately, everything I found enticing about the story in the commercials is grossly absent from the movie itself. The characters are underdeveloped, the humor is base, and the voice acting is horrible...all brought to you in 3D!! I only laughed once during the whole film; when it looked like a young girl had been impaled. I'm not sick: that's just how bad the humor was. I rarely say this about Family-friendly movies, but I never want to see this one again.
What were they thinking? A plot about an evil man who adopts three small girls just to use them in his evil plot to steal something and then return them to the orphanage after they no longer serve his purpose? is that bad enough? No.When returned to the orphanage, like unwanted merchandise, they are put in a box of 'Shame' for being returned. Come on. How in God's name do you think my two adopted daughters felt after leaving that movie? Why did the film need to degrade adopted children in this manner? Think next time. Anyone associated with the creation of this movie should be put in a 'Box of Shame'
To anticipate the experience of viewing this film, imagine spending 2 hours listening to the The Chipmunks chattering away without stop. Except that the giggling creatures in the film are not the Chipmunks. They are violent and vicious, constantly clobbering each other.To pick one example out of many : two characters appear on screen, one holding a hammer, the other a spike to be planted. The character with the hammer suddenly smacks the other character on the head with it. No reason. Just to get a 'laugh'.To me, a most disconcerting thing was to see the Mom sitting next to me in the cinema with her two toddlers burst out laughing.The violence in this film is not at all like what we used to see in Roadrunner cartoons. No attempt were made then to portray the Roadrunner or the Coyote as three-dimensional human beings. There was no possibility of associating the characters on screen with real people. The attempts at humor' in this film are more like that of the Three Stooges. If you loved the Stooges, Despicable Me will leave you in stitches.
Despicable Me was quite possibly the worst movie I have ever seen. Scratch that, it was THE worst movie I have ever seen. It is in no way 'cute', 'charming', or even 'funny'. You can't be taken seriously when you're a CGI kids' movie starring a bald guy with a bizarre accent. It ruins the pitiful attempts at drama.The voice actors seemed to have been hired based on recognition factor and not skill. Miranda Cosgrove's performance is unconvincing, and Jason Segal was cast clearly because of his comedic background. An experienced VA like Jack Angel could have been hired instead and nobody would tell the difference. Jack McBrayer has all of three lines. The main character 'Gru' is the worst. Sure, in comedic parts, you can ignore his horrible accent, but the rare 'serious' moments in the film are ruined because of this accent. The only good voice actor is Will Arnett, playing a stern boss. He's probably the only aspect of the movie I liked.The characters are all ugly and none are memorable, visually. I had to look away from the screen at some parts. They were also one-dimensional. The three girls have no personality, and the minions are forced kid-appeal characters. Gru himself is flat. What's his motivation to become number one villain? The climax is particularly baffling, with one of the girls trying to choose between getting crushed by the moon, or jumping to stay with her sisters. The plot does not captivate imaginations, try anything new, or pump you up. The writing contains plot holes. What happened to the pyramid everyone made a big deal about? It's never returned! In addition, the movie contains several horrible sights. Gru's butt, Gru on the toilet, and Gru's smiley-face pantsu. Did we need to see any of that?The comedy is basically toilet humour and minions getting into wacky shenanigans. A lot of it is really just padding; the movie could have been done as a 7-minute short and still be coherent. The hyped up 'IT'S SO FLUFFY' yielded about two laughs and a cough at my theater. The only amusing part was Gru telling the girls to 'GET BACK IN THE KITCHEN', and that wasn't even intentional. Maybe some (read: some) kids will find it entertaining, but only if they are between 3 and 9.Overall, Despicable Me is forgettable. You're not going to look back on it years later and think, 'Man, that was a great experience.' You'll think 'Despicable Me is an example of how not to make a movie.' The only reason I gave it one star is because the rating system can't go lower. It's that bad.
i found this movie mildly entertaining,with a few light chuckles here and there,but i don't think it wasn't as funny as i had hoped or expected it to be.there were no real 'laugh out loud,tears rolling down your face moments'.i think it was just a case of a lot of the jokes falling flat.it had some cute moments though,and of course there's a feel good ending.it's suitable for the whole family and kids will get a kick out of it.for me,it was just this side of boring.compared to a lot of animated films i've seen this one just doesn't stack up.having said that,however,it's far from being awful.it's just not great.for me,Despicable Me is a 5/10
This was very impressive. I liked the 3d graphics. I like how it just looked so cool. The story? Eh, not so much. Typical super villain, typical 'lol funny' jokes, and so on.There were too many sudden attack scenes (where it's quiet and suddenly a loud noise happens), and there were too many 'trying to be funny' scenes that weren't really funny.But other than that, it was okay. The ending wasn't as good as I had hoped. I mean, it goes from the whole suspense to the sudden 'okay we did all that work to get the moon, let's put it back and have some random guy live on it.' to some 'let's have nice music at the play and then put a rock/disco song into it to make it seem funny, with all the characters dancing to it as well!'. Not good.
**1/2 out of (****)Despicable Me is one of those movies that are completely disposable, but in the moment, are fun, lighthearted, and humorous. And in the end, that's really all you can ask for. Surprisingly, the third dimensions actually please both audiences: those who despise 3-D as a gimmick, and those who despise 3-D as just an 'in-depth' experience. I can say that I really don't care where the third dimensions goes, but this is probably the best 3-D film since Avatar. Despite the 3-D, the film is still pretty decent. The performances are strong, the premise is actually original, and the movie moves at a smooth pace. However, it has nothing on 'How to Train Your Dragon', also released from DreamWorks. Still, it is forgettable fun and while not mind-blowing, it still has substance.'Despicable Me' revolves around Gru (Carell), who wants to dethrone his opponent, who is also running for the world's most evil villain. Gru's plan is to steal the moon, but he adopts three children, which distract him from his plans. First off, the premise may not be entirely inventive, but it's just a tad more original than most children's films. Furthermore, I thought this movie was entertaining. Yes, it started a little slow at the beginning, but near the middle, the film picks up momentum. Moreover, I thought the performances were strong. Even the antagonists were pretty likable. Additionally, like I mentioned, the 3-D is the best since Avatar, no hyperbole. This 3-D is not conversion, it was actually shot in Real D 3-D which is certainly refreshing. Also, I just love those little minions. They are hilarious and just steal the show. You could make a movie about them and nobody else, yet you'd still enjoy the film.While the pros outweigh the cons, there are still some flaws. First off, the movie starts off a little tedious. It isn't a chore to sit through in the beginning, but nothing is incredibly entertaining. Furthermore, this movie's direction is uneven. The director has a plethora of ideas, but none of them stick together. It's just kind of all over the place. Moreover, this movie is way too predictable, but that's kind of what's expected. Also, it is a somewhat original, but a subplot or two has been used before, which was a little disappointing.Overall, 'Despicable Me' is a pretty enjoyable family film. The jokes aren't too shabby, the performances are strong, and the premise is a little original. The 3-D is also an added bonus. It doesn't pack a punch like 'How to Train Your Dragon' or 'Toy Story 3', but it's still worthwhile on its own merits. Amazing? Not even close, but 'Despicable', it is not. Despicable Me gets a mild recommendation in my book.
Gru delights in all things wicked. Armed with his arsenal of shrink rays, freeze rays, and battle-ready vehicles for land and air, he vanquishes all who stand in his way. Until the day he encounters the immense will of three little orphaned girls who look at him and see something that no one else has ever seen: a potential Dad. The world's greatest villain has just met his greatest challenge: three little girls named Margo, Edith and Agnes. (Universal Pictures)DESPICABLE ME is a film that reminds us that it's okay to have an animated film that can be watched as nothing more than entertainment. It doesn't have the heavy handed themes of death and moving on like in TOY STORY 3 nor is it profound and enlightening like many Pixar films are. But that doesn't make the film bad. It's just light-hearted entertainment for the whole family to enjoy. When is that ever a crime?The film sports an *gasp* original premise and succeeds mostly due to Ken Daurio's clever and comedic script. The characters are also very lovable. Steve Carell is excellent as Gru, the main character. He provides an excellent Russian accent and gives the character a big heart. Still, I felt that they could have done more with Jason Segel, Russell Brand, and especially Kristen Wiig. These actors are comedic gold and their characters ended up to be more underwhelming than hilarious. However, the minions stole the show, providing some of the film's biggest laughs. They were so cute! And speaking of cute, Agnes is my favorite character. She was so adorable.I saw the film in 3D, and I have to say it was really good. It's used in both the gimmicky and subtle way, which I thought helped the film. Overall, it's nowhere near as good as TOY STORY 3 and HOW TO TRAIN YOUR DRAGON, both brilliant films. However, it's a really sweet film that just melts your heart. Parents should really take their kids to see it because you could do a lot worse. Watch the film if you want to have fun for an hour and a half.
Sometimes a movie can just aim to be adorable fun, and Despicable Me is nothing else if not that. The film features a hook-nosed villain named Gru who has a bunch of little yellow pill-shaped minions all with one eye and speak gibberish and who adopts a few cute little orphans so he can infiltrate the lair of a nerdy would-be villain named Victor (or 'Vector' as he tries to call himself), and who ultimately loves the little rascally girls who just want the big guy to take care of them. It's like a fluffy little dark comedy, if that can possibly be combined, where the movies doesn't lose its edge entirely, but over the course of the story it gets fluffier, a little more heartfelt. But, thankfully, it's always funny. Maybe it's funny in that silly old-style cartoon way where we see characters who are no good doing crazy things like trying to scale the walls of other no-goodniks. Or, as it really is, it's like one of those cartoons on the Cartoon Network only extended feature-length (think, perhaps, Dexter's Laboratory, which had a character wanting nothing but to be an evil mad-scientist and usually did pretty poorly at it; Gru as Dexter's bald uncle). Others out there may also think back to Lemony Snickett, which also featured a curmudgeon who becomes the ward of some kids and the kids start to get the better of him. This isn't Lemony Snicket, however, nor exactly Dexter's Lab or other cartoons. It's entirely familiar, but its original in its details.The movie is aimed at children for a large part, but it also has a lot of jokes and just a general attitude at times for the adults. Gru early on is a Grinch-like character (there's an obvious connection to Seuss stories, a Lorax t-shirt seen included), and has a lot of mean-spirited quips at people or little tricks like a freeze-gun that are just delightful to watch. It's fun to see a character be as bad as he wants to be, and at the same time isn't very good at it - and, too, neither is his exercise-suit wearing nemesis, Victor. But it's pretty clear once those little yellow minions come into the fore-front, as do those little girls (especially the really small one with the love for her unicorn and bedtime stories about kittens) that it's a cute-fest. You want to hug this movie once you give in to it.And whether or not you give in to it will probably determine how much you respond to it. It's a treat for kids, who will want the high- spirited comedy and the progression of the story of Gru becoming more and more likable (unlike the total grime of Lemony Snickett's character). For adults, the story will be familiar, especially if one's taken their kids to see something like it recently. Everything is done in good fun, and even the ending with its Bee Gees music playing during a dance recital is meant to give everyone a big smile. It's a minor treat following Toy Story 3, and a welcome respite from the likes of The Last Airbender as entertainments for the 'family' this summer. Oh, and Steve Carrell is great by the way as Gru.
This movie was so hysterical! Laughs rocked the room at every scene played for humor. The voice-overs were amazing and so was the lipsynching. Most of the humor revolved around the minions and Gru. For more humor see the 3-D version and sit through the credits and you will laugh your head off. Another fun part about Despicable Me is actually seeing the challenges criminals face. This experience makes you feel a lot different about the actions Gru makes. After hearing the wonderful pros of Despicable Me you might want to Know why it's not a perfect ten. The reason is the plot. Although the movie is funny the plot keeps it from reaching it's full potential. The plot is very basic and could have been more developed. So overall this movie is an eight out of ten.
First up, if you're planning to watch 'Despicable Me', put on high expectations because this movie might and will satisfy you with its comedic adventures.In this movie, I truly love the yellow minions. They are just truly adorable, cute and funny. If you listen to their language, it's insanely hilarious. Their actions are truly silly and laughable. The story is very clever. I truly loved it because it's different than most of the other children movies where the protagonist is a good guy rather than having a little bit of a twist where the main character is a villain. Steve Carell's accents on Gru are also excellent. They're unique and amusing. Not only the sounds, the model for Gru is also cool. His nose is like so long that it looks strange like Pinnochio's. The three little orphans are also cute especially Agnes, the smallest one. Vector was also hilarious.The 3D effects were also good. The depths were really seen and some of the scenes really got things towards the audience. So, it's not a bad choice to enjoy it in 3D.'Despicable Me' is another must-see movie this summer as it rivals 'Toy Story 3' to become the best animated film of 2010. Bring your kids and 3D is a good way to enjoy it. In conclusion, this movie gets a perfect rating of 10 stars. By the way, don't miss the scenes in the credits, the 3D effects there are cool.
This film is TERRIBLE.Ordinarily I wouldn't waste my time even writing a review on trash like this - but - this is supposed to be one of the movies of the moment, movies of the year even. Don't waste your money - It's just dire....It just does not in any way shape or form hang together. Characters, such as they are are pointless creations. There is very little humour in here because the 'story' (I'm promoting it by suggesting it has a story...) just doesn't work as a vehicle for any gags.I went with my 7 year old - and he got restless. As for me - I fell asleep, and I wasn't woken up by any howls of laughter from the audience.I love animated films of all kinds - so it saddens me to say that Despicable Me is just a DOG of a movie. Don't bother.
The movie has nothing really good about it, the plot is stupid (an Egyptian pyramid has been ruined by another villain so now I have to shrink the moon to show that I'm better, then after he shrinks the moon, the antagonist Vector kidnaps the three girls, and makes Gru give the moon (which is now the size of a baseball) back so he'll give back the girls, then he refuses to give back the girls, he blasts off in his ship, and Gru's scientist tells him that the shrinking effect will wear off soon, then Vector gets mushed by the moon and the girls return with Gru, like I told you, it's stupid.), it has bad humor, a pitiful soundtrack (even though it was mostly songs performed by Pharrell), bad animation (especially Gru, Gru's mother (who has an extremely long head and nose), and pretty much everyone except the three girls), and so that really makes this movie almost unwatchable.
I don't know what happens to me with some movies that love most and that only cause me some entertainment. This is one of those cases, the movie didn't catch me, it didn't hook me, the characters I found acceptable but no more, and the famous Minions did not make me very funny, if I laughed once it was much much.From 'Despicable Me' I really liked the visual section, the quality of the images, effects and planes, especially the Moon. Have a good time.
Despicable Me is a short term film. It's playful, snappy, colourful and sporadically humorous. Watching it in 3D with my family was 95 mins well spent. Past that point it didn't offer much. Once the end credits rolled I barely gave the film a second thought. I have a feeling that a repeat viewing at home will render it dull and unwatchable. Well, for the parents at least. Only a few key moments have stuck with me since, but all of them can be found in the trailer anyway. This isn't to say the ephemeral Me isn't a movie worth watching, far from it in fact. It's just a very 'in-the-moment' experience, which isn't necessarily a bad thing.Steve Carell supplies Gru with an intriguing Russian-esquire accent, it adds another level of fascination to the character but Carell is talented enough to not let it slip into a camp Bela Lugosi parody. Gru's voice defines him and seems to be a perfect match for the super-villain's physical appearance, I would be interested to know which came first. The rest of the voice cast are strangely forgettable. Julie Andrews and Russell Brand are unrecognisable as Gru's mother and elderly sidekick respectively, whilst Jason Segal doesn't conjure up any laughs as the nerdy Vector.The animation is solid, if not groundbreaking. The creatively cute minions are visually funny and whenever they were on screen I had a smile on my face. Other images weren't as eye-catching as they should have been, such as Gru's stock-standard Addams family house and his over-sized automobile. The third dimension has been utilised well by directors Coffin and Renaud, depth is present throughout and the infrequent instances where an object lurches from the screen had the kiddies in awe, even if the adults won't find it all the spectacular.Take the children and enjoy it while it's on, don't be expecting a lasting impression though.3 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 - Classic)
We just came back from seeing this movie (my wife and me)? And we have to say that we liked very much. Great animation and great moral story line that will make any parent smile. The jokes both spoke and visual were tastefully done with out any offensive humor. One of the best aspects of the whole movie are the Minions. Go see the movie and you will laugh your head off.There many families with young children about 6 years old all the way up to those that are children at heart laughing and having a great time with the movie. There was nothing offensive at all with the movie and it is a MUST SEE IN 3D! No worries with the children, just good family fun movie. There are some jokes and situations that was clearly written for the adults and we got it while the children where blissfully unaware.Good, good, good movie for a family outing. Go and enjoy it especially in 3D.
I was a student at the university and I watched this movie.Everyone at the university had watched this animation and it was very funny.I watched it first with the Turkish dubbing, Ata Demirer did a good job, but the original is the best.
A lot of films for children but watchable by everyone. Fun and profound in teaching how love can change anyone.
This is such a wonderful gem of a movie. No matter how many times I see it, it never gets old. It's just so fun to watch. You see this aging supervillain get shown up by a much younger supervillain, and to top him, cynically adopts three girls who will unknowingly give him access to the thing he needs, but unfortunately for him, learns to love the girls. It's sweet, really sweet. You see Gru slowly learn to care and love the girls. The movie is genuinely hilarious at moments, it's super sweet, and honestly just well made. It's very well paced, never getting too fast or too slow, well-written, a good score and even better soundtrack, honestly, this movie just rocks. It's a fun time for the whole family.
This is a great movie for all ages. We love gru and his lil' minions.
I only watched Despicable Me so that I could understand what was the deal with the Minion memes that moms share on Facebook. Turns out the movie is nothing like the cringe that is shown in them, especially considering Minions don't even talk properly. In fact it has more in common with the Reddit memes.The story is quite nice. I like seeing stories like Shrek and The Angry Birds Movie, where some arrogant outcast wants to be left alone but slowly develops feelings and compassion for those whom they go out with an adventure with. Here Gru has his three adopted daughters - Margo, Edith and Agnes. Initially they look just like some cute troublemakers, until Gru starts doing his own things.The thing which I like the most about this movie is the dynamic roster of characters. Vector is a funny villain who kinda reminds me of Syndrome from The Incredibles, except he's a nerd and has a funny voice. I laughed every time he used his fish gun. I was expecting Gru to be a very annoying character, the way he looked. But his voice is so cool, and the way he was introduced was somehow very satisfying to watch. Then there's Dr Nefarious, who seems to be somewhat of a paternal figure to all the Minions.Despicable Me is nothing more than what it pretends to be: A simple, fun to watch animated movie with cute and funny characters meant for the laughs. It's something you'd watch only if you want to spend some time with children. I haven't talked much with children so I assume they already know about it, so you can use this movie as a means to talk to them.
Out of the entire Despicable Me movies, this is the best one. It's funny, heartfelt and wholesome.(The darn minions didn't have as much screentime thank gosh.)This was also back when these movies had a story. It was nothing too special but the fun characters made it interesting and sad at times.
This is such a great, funny movie!! My younger brothers and I ave watched it probably 20 times. Great characters! We love all the Despicable Me movies.
'Despicable Me' doesn't even come close to threatening Pixar. But that does not mean that this first work by Ilumination Entertainment does not have its own brilliance. When telling a story of fatherhood, adding a very special spice to the formula, this beginner studio introduces us to a group of characters that are quite fun and charming in their own way.The plot is simple: after being overtaken by newcomer Vector, the villain Gru (Steve Carell) wants to return to being the biggest criminal mind in the world, with his master plan to steal the moon. However, for this, he needs a shrinking ray, which ends up in the hands of his rival. Gru then devises a way to get his hands on the gun, but in order to enter the fortress of Vetor, he needs the help of Agnes (Elsie Fisher), Edith (Dana Gaier) and Margo (Miranda Cosgrove, three orphaned girls who sell But the girls can exert an influence on Gru that the villain could never have predicted.Directed by strangers Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud, the animation starts well by exploring the protagonist's moody attitudes and managing to convert them into laughter for the audience. The bet on exaggeration and the total lack of pretension count in favor of the feature, which seems to be there only to provide a half hour of pure entertainment, not to mention philosophical reflections or exaggerated emotions. How pleasant it is to watch the opening sequence and realize that it serves only to introduce the mystery and whose characters will no longer appear throughout the rest of the film.One of the most interesting aspects of the script is playing with cliché situations making them as credible as possible. Now, Gru's personality is explained by the absence of a happy childhood. The mother (as cruel as) always disowned him, but this is told in such a colorful way, so in the joke, that it is impossible not to understand the subject without much laughter. And this is the great difference of this animation in relation to many others launched annually: the lack of something mushier. Practically everything in history is treated with such debauchery that the smile comes easily with each picture, with each shot. Not even when little orphans enter the scene with their search for a home does the film fall into cheap sentimentality. After all, the three little ones may have been abandoned and act suspiciously towards their new father, but they are smart enough to turn everything into a separate show. Especially when they win the hearts of Minions.The look of the film is very cartoonish, ranging from the characteristics of its characters to its art direction. The design is very colorful and bright, contrasting precisely with the story, which is told from the point of view of a 'villain', with the absence of a more classic hero. And the most interesting point of the film is precisely the evolution of its protagonist. Gru is presented to us as a man who loves to be mean, whether it hurts small children, crashes other vehicles with his rocket car or performs his blows. Gradually, we get to know the villain better and discover that he was not always like this, making his relationship with girls and his consequent personal growth not to be forced.In common with 'The Incredibles', this film has the fact that its characters live in urban areas, in full view of ordinary people. However, this ends up taking away some of the strength of the story, as the plot would need to take place either in a city of blind or idiots to not notice some absurdities, such as Gru's rocket car or the gap opened in the middle of the public road by protagonist at the end of the second act. What makes us ignore these 'small' flaws is the charisma of the characters. While the trio of orphans, each with their own personality, conquers us as much as Gru himself, he becomes the most complex and lovable figure in the film, even with his 'evil'. His relationship with his partner, the mad scientist Dr. Nefario, with his fun minions and his own mother reveal a lot about the protagonist himself and amuses the audience at the same time. In fact, the scenes between Vetor and the director of Banco do Mal are echoed precisely in the sequences starring Gru and his mother. Other interesting insights are the visual references and narratives planted by screenwriters Ken Daurio and Cinco Paul ('My Santa is Noel 2') during the film, referring to 'The Godfather', making jokes with the film industry and even with the economy American (that only adults will understand, by the way).The development of the plot, however, weakens its originality. Jokes stop working, creativity stops and didacticism takes over the narrative. When introducing the three girls to Gru's life, the script by Ken Daurio, of the good 'Horton and the World of the Who', begins to fall into common place. The original situations are replaced by the comedy of customs, showing the adaptation of the girls in the house of the now stepfather and the subsequent approximation between their sweetness and his brutality. The long, in short, becomes predictable. In addition, the confrontation between antagonist and protagonist, in the incessant attempt to steal the Moon, never thrills. Vector is an extremely boring villain, starting with physical attributes, unable to attract the charisma or hatred of the spectators. His technological inventions are so many and so poorly selected that we are not impressed when he pulls out a squid gun in the final sequence.The only good attraction of 'Despicable Me' is Gru's little yellow assistants, the so-called minions. With an indecipherable language and an insane desire to carry out disorders, beings are included in hilarious situations, ranging from an unexpected trip to the city's supermarket to serving as guinea pigs for scientific experiments by the not-so-funny Dr. Nefario. In a comparison between animations, it would not be inappropriate to say that the minions function like the penguins of 'Madagascar'. Liking small yellow pets is easy, but the French team led by Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud also manages to create an empathy between the public and the villainous Gru, showing a little of the reasons that led him to be who he is. And, believe me, this is gigantic merit. If the project had fallen into less skilful hands, Gru's story with his mother could easily tip over to the boring or pedantic. Here, it is just another comic element.However, the indecisive construction of adult characters. It is not a resource where the script develops each character and we see its character change along the tape. The case of Despicable Me is that we have the false impression that all adults are bad people, but in the end, they become good people or are boycotted by their own stupidity, as in the case of Vetor and his father. So we thought: if most of the characters appear to be villains, but they don't really fall into that category, why was the film built as a world of monsters for children - in the best style of Unfortunate Events will see animation? If only this were really worked on, maybe we would have another impression, but from the first minutes of Gru on the screen, we realize that the premise about him is totally false! The big guy with the weird voice is no longer a villain even before the girls arrive, who are supposed to show him another way. It is not interesting to see characters sold with an 'X' premise just to make the story count. If there are changes, they need to be motivated and not pre-conceived and hidden to a convenient point in the film.The film is really quite fun and has an interesting family appeal, but for an animation with this slightly more mature proposal, the cartoonish character and the 'Coyote and Papaleguas' relationship between Gru and Vetor goes in a completely opposite way to what it should. As if the dishonesty in the conception of the adult characters was not enough, there is a strong incongruity between the mature, emotional and familiar point of the story and the nonsense that marks the misfortunes of the 'villains'. It just doesn't match the tone of the film. And if the idea was to add a comic conflict to the work, let it be done with the best thing that exists in Despicable Me (along with Agnes' cuteness): The Minions.To take care of the animation, producer Chris Meledandri did not hire hundreds of people. He preferred to keep his small office in Hollywood and work with a third-party animation studio. Meledandri says that this way he will always be able to choose the right people for each project. And seeing what the French at Mac Guff Ligne developed, it's hard to disagree. 3-D uses depth well and, in the roller coaster scene, puts the viewer in the middle of the action, without having to throw anything in the audience's face. And it is also worth waiting until the end, when the minions return to play more with the third dimension.Despicable Me is a fun animation because it has the presence of little yellows and a lovely child, Agnes; but sins in what should be your true identity. The film is indecisive between the silly, the tenderness and the comical, a tightrope that is left aside by spectators more susceptible to scenes classified as 'oooooown! '. It is not a bad movie. It is a very fun piece and with really funny moments, but it ends up being subtracted by the script's flaws.
The best illumination entertainment movies that make me smile.
4+
Wrote By Ryan Newble
Aged 10Very Good For Kids. Better Than 2 And 3. By All Means Show This To Your Kid. Very Exciting And Funny Film Throughout.Violence: Nothing
S#X: Nothing
Language: Nothing
Gore: Nothing
Comedy: Kinda
Musical: NO.
Really entertaining, funny, and fun watch, Steve Carell as Gru was the best part of the movie and great voice acting.The minions can be funny at times and there are memorable scenes.
Anyone come to adopt us while we were out? Hmm let me think...... NO!
It took quite awhile for me to give it a higher rating. It's predictability made it somewhat boring, but it ended up being very sweet. Overall, I was satisfied, but I don't exactly see myself watching this over and over again.
What can I say about this film that hasn't already been said, it is common knowledge that this film is one of the best movies to ever be produced. It is a tale of bravery and finding yourself and viewers can take away great life lessons from it.
I love this movie. The animation is beautiful and fast paced, the minions are extremely funny and the antagonist (not Gru) makes me laugh.
Marvelous. This film is a real masterpiece. Mature and fun, really suitable for everyone.
I don't have a favorite, but this is one of them.The plot was great.The animation was incredible.And it was truly sad, I cried a lot at the end.Definitely an A+
This movie is great! I will say up front though there is a lot more disney tragedy in this one then usual. The parents of the main character are out of the picture (just talked about you don't see anything) and then another character dies during the movie for some extra tragedy (off screen). The theme of death/loss is recurring in this movie so be warned for sensitive littles.This is a super hero movie with a heart and done it high quality disney style. There is enough here to entertain adults, and lots of action to keep the kids glued. The acting is top notch and the flow is great, it sprinkles in action here and there while it builds to the main conflict. Would recommend this one to anyone not just kids.
Good movie for the family. Very interesting and normally do not like these kinds of movies.
Big Hero 6 was enjoyable although not near perfect. The story has several problems and potholes start to pop up everywhere such as the robot locating someone far away in an island to then get to the island and not be able to locate that person anymore because of 'interference', why did that not affect the robot before? I will admit it does look very nice with fluid animations but the simple villain story line had me guessing what was going to happen every minute before it did.
When I was in 10th class and this movie was announced, I had no intention of seeing it, because I haven't seen the last 5 movies. That's how much I lived under a rock. By the time I learnt it doesn't have any prequels the movie was long gone from the theatres. So I finally watched the movie when it came on TV and damn this was a movie I'd have loved to see! Later on I got to know this is based on the Marvel comics, so technically this is the first Marvel movie I have ever watched (because I live under a rock, remember?).The reason why I liked Big Hero 6 so much is because of Hiro Hamada. I have always been interested in robotics and have participated in a robot combat competition myself. Other than that I was preparing for JEE so I was as such very much into science. So right off the bat we begin from a relatable protagonist. Tadashi was also a very nicely made character. When both Hiro and Tadashi go to his college my focus was on how nicely they both talk. It actually feels like they are physically there, as Hiro looks around and Tadashi gives remarks as he gives Hiro a tour. When he shows Baymax to Hiro the part where Hiro thinks he just made a duct tape shows how natural their behaviour was. The other characters were also very interesting, although I don't remember their names anymore since I watched it so long ago.The movie has all kinds of emotions that make it appealing to the audience. It will make one laugh, cry, angry, excited, scared and awestruck. The heroes, villains, story, plot twist, emotional conflicts and even the little details scattered throughout the movie have all been placed very well. Just watching the hero-villain fights didn't let me be seated. Baymax is so cute. The Stan Lee cameo in the end was also unique.Overall I'd say the message of this movie is the most important aspect about this movie. A hero, who has lost his brother who was his only family and has gone into depression, is brought back to high hopes with the souvenir that his brother left him. His brother's friends were there to help him, his step-mother was supportive of him and overall everyone around him was always wanting the best for him. This is what finally allowed him to be the superhero. His emotional conflicts, whether he should entirely act on his feelings or take a calm and collected approach, whether he should kill someone or never harm a person, whether he should use his powers alone or assemble a team, all of this was in his hands. He did everything he hoped will make his brother proud.I enjoyed this movie so much that later on I showed it to my sister and recommended to all the children I met. This is what a movie should be like. It has a good story, memorable people, character development, conflicts, emotions - everything needed to make a good story. These are the most grounded heroes I have seen in any animated movie. I really hope it gets a sequel. I can't have enough of it.
Wow. Probably my second Disney movie ever. So sad, and so amazing.
Don't get me wrong big hero six isn't a bad movie it's just a boring movie there's a lot of good stuff in it but there's a lot of not great stuff and it one bay max making funny sound+ And nice personality does not=cute 2 TJ Miller is kinda annoying this movie But not meh levels of annoying 3 it shouldn't of deserve the Oscar the Lego movie came out the same year here and it three times better than this movie. But it's still a good movie.
A fun movie, if fairly predictable, kind of like a manga-inspired animated version of Avengers (full disclaimer: I haven't seen the Avengers movies yet). The inflatable robot, built by the dead brother of Hiro the main Hero, steals the show, and the ongoing dilemmas of involving a health-care robot in violence, even against bad guys, was definitely interesting. Very much like the Iron Giant.
An incredibly beautiful animation. I really enjoyed. The story was really great and fascinating. The characterization was great too. It fulfills everything you expect from a good animation.
This movie came out Nov. 7, 2014 and then Frozen came out exactly 20 days later. This movie is amazing and so underrated. The animation is absolutely beautiful and the whole movie was just ugh chefs kiss. However, when Frozen came out, everybody forgot about it and it became overshadowed.Yes, Frozen was a good movie, but so was Big Hero Six and it didn't get the appreciation it deserves.
Another well made movie by Disney. It had some positive messages and had pretty good pacing.Solid story with good atmosphere but had some minor flaws and was predictable at times. Not hating or anything but like half of the humor either came from Fred or Baymax.The characters were unique and had their own unique quirks and personalities. The visuals were spectacular and was an eye candy. The music and sound choices were very good and the voice acting was amazing.Overall an enjoyable movie.Memorable: No Rewatchable: Maybe..
Big Hero 6 is one of the least rewatchable movies I have seen. With that being said, I loved it the first time and I liked it every other time. It's good.
My favorite animation filmMy favorite animation film
I really liked this movie. Baymax is the coolest most hilarious and sweetest robot ever, really making the film. And I loved the relationship between Hiro and Tadashi. Laugh out loud funny, heart-wrenchingly sad, this is one of my favourite animations.
Its ok...story was decent,vfx was good.animation is average.overall id give it a 7.6/10
This little animated movie has more heart than 90% of Hollywood blockbusters.
'Big Hero 6' occupies a visually dense and splendid alternate anachronistic future world--namely, the city of San Fransokyo--a portmanteau of San Francisco and Tokyo that aptly reflects the picture's American-Japanese hybrid universe, which itself is a result of the Americanization of the comic book's Japanese settings as created by Americans for Marvel. For the most part, however, the focus is on the relationship between Hiro (sounds like 'hero') and his inflatable marshmallow-man-looking robotic healthcare provider, Baymax. 'Big Hero 6' is at its best after Hiro equips Baymax with a suit that's a mix between Iron Man and Buzz Lightyear and flies atop him through San Fransokyo and through a trippy portal. This is the brilliance of computer animation, for no other cameras can soar through a space in this manner, nor may that space otherwise be so wonderfully designed. Even live-action productions need resort to virtual cinematography and CGI for such tasks.Otherwise, the narrative here is flawed, while I would've favored more sight-seeing of San Fransokyo. The elaborate backstory involving robot fights, the science-y mumbo jumbo and the seemingly requisite tragic incident considerably delays the more amusing bromance antics between Hiro and Baymax and the eventual superheroics. The other four members of the superhero team are poorly developed and, consequently, uninteresting. As is the supervillain stuff for the most part, although the movie does play around a bit with the trope of an evil corporation and executive. The Iron Man parallels seem further extended by this, as Hiro turns away from profiteering over his microbots in favor of aiding mankind--or at least employing technology to improve his own superheroics--as well as being blown back by a fiery blast that hurts him (it's a different kind of hurt, Baymax)--like Tony Stark. Plus, it always strikes me as odd, if not deviously hypocritical, when a multinational conglomerate like Disney peddles even a hint of an anti-corporate message. Regardless, 'Big Hero 6' is alone worthwhile to see for Hiro and Baymax soaring.
This is some very heavy stuff for a kids film. An orphan boy living with his aunt who then loses his older brother whos basically a father figure to him. There's this one scene where the older brother tries to build a helper robot and it took him 100 times before it worked. This teaches kids (and all us all for that matter) that when you fail you try, try again, even if it means trying over 60 times, no matter how frustrating it is, how much it stresses you, how hopeless it seems, you don't give up. And you will make it eventually. Most things worth doing are not easy.
A lot of reviewers are very critical about Big Hero 6. 'The twist villain is bad written', I agree, but this movie has so much more to offer us! It's based around the trauma, mourning and feelings of revenge from the protagonist, Hiro. I haven't seen a lot of Disney movies who did this the right way. It really shows us; What do I feel and what do I need? What can I do and what would Tadashi has wanted?Big Hero 6 is set in an utopian futuristic city. It's mixed with Tokyo and San Francisco elements. When you watch the movie, you're able to feel the Californian and Japanese influences. I like all the characters, except for the twist villain. My problem with him is that he is poorly developed. It kinda came out of nowhere. Probably because we hadn't time enough to care about him? Well, although I like all the characters, I think only Hiro and his aunt have a proper arc. The hero team is fun and are good friends, but the movie should have gotten a sequel to make their personalities completer. There's a tv show though, so maybe that works? The movie has also really good visual effects and the animation is beautiful, it fits very well with the story and the atmosphere.Why do I say 'we took this for granted'? I think a lot of people will say this movie is the worst from this Disney Animation era, but I think it's just different and did that very good. It holds up with the Renaissance movies. Big Hero 6 has a lot of emotional moments and a good message for young and old. It's also an adaptation from the Marvel comics, which is very special for Disney. Yes, it has its problems, but so had every movie.I also recommend the making off. Available in Disney Plus with the movie by extra. That made me love the movie even more!
What a treat! My five year old and I were glued to the screen. Gripping from the start. Great story. Inspirational for young and old alike. Fantastic animation. Gentle jokes throughout. If only more films could be like this.
Plot : 12/20Dialogues : 6/10Characters : 16/20Animation : 20/20Music : 8/10Fun : 16/20
Totally : 8/10
This is the sweetest superhero flick out there. Such a powerful story of fighting grief and crime simultaneously. Baymax carries the entire movie with his wholesome charm and emotional counseling, especially during the sequence where he runs low on battery and becomes 'Tipsy Baymax.' And the jokes still get me, too.
The film was very great! The storyline is touching and the characters are enjoyable. It teach you about family, friends and decisions on what's right and what's wrong. About life. I could give a ten but didn't like the fate of one of the main characters. I can only say that I would like a sequel. If we waited for incredible 2 then we can have the sequel for big hero 6.
It's a 10/10 from me such an amazing movie! Highly recommend
The movie is based on a teen ager called Hiro Hamada who is a prodigy, as well as a high school graduate. He has quite aptitude in robotics. The the movie initiates with an illegal robot fight and our hero has quite eagerness in it.
Hiro very easily defeats Yama's robot with his prodigious Magnetic-bearing servos, although he has to face little trouble for it.
However, to show Hiro an actual place to utilize his talents his older brother Tadashi takes him to the research lab at the San Fransokyo Institute of Technology, where Hiro meets Tadashi's friends, Go Go, Wasabi, Honey Lemon, and Fred, and also Baymax, the inflatable healthcare robot that Tadashi created. Hiro also meets Professor Robert Callaghan who is an idol in Hero's eyes and also the head of the university's robotics program. Robert Callaghan offers Hiro to join the university under the robotic program. Amazed, Hiro decides to apply to the university.
To enroll, he signs up for the school's showcase and presents his project: micro-bots, swarms of tiny robots that can link together in any arrangement imaginable using a neurocranial transmitter. At the fair, Hiro declines an offer from Alistair Krei, CEO of Krei Tech, to market the micro-bots, and Callaghan accepts him into the school. As the Hamada family leaves to celebrate Hiro's success, a massive fire suddenly breaks out in the showcase hall and Tadashi rushes in to save Callaghan, the only person left inside. The building explodes moments later.
Two weeks later, Hiro, mourning Tadashi's death, inadvertently reactivates Baymax. The two find Hiro's only remaining microbot and follow it to an abandoned warehouse. There they discover that someone has been mass-producing the micro-bots. A man wearing a Kabuki mask attacks them with the microbot swarms. After they escape, Hiro suspects that the fire that claimed his brother may not have been accidental and in fact started by the man in the kabuki mask to cover the theft of the microbots. Seeking vengeance, Hiro equips Baymax with armor and a battle chip containing various karate moves and they track the masked man to the docks. Go Go, Wasabi, Honey Lemon, and Fred arrive, responding to a call from Baymax, and the masked man chases the group. The six escape to Fred's mansion, where they decide to form a high-tech superhero team to combat the villain.
The group tracks the masked man, whom they suspect to be Krei, to an abandoned Krei Tech laboratory that was used for teleportation research until a test pilot was lost in an accident. The masked man attacks, but the group subdues him and knocks off his mask, revealing him to be Callaghan, who shielded himself from the explosion that killed Tadashi. Enraged at the discovery that Tadashi had died in vain, Hiro removes Baymax's healthcare chip and orders him to kill Callaghan. Honey re-installs the healthcare chip at the last second, preventing Baymax from carrying out the kill order. Callaghan barely escapes, recovering the mask as he does so, and Hiro leaves with Baymax, intent on avenging Tadashi.
Back home, Hiro repairs the robot's damaged scanners and tries to remove the healthcare chip again, but Baymax blocks his access port, convincing Hiro with video of Tadashi running numerous tests during Baymax's development as a demonstration of Tadashi's benevolence and legacy. Hiro remorsefully apologizes to his friends, who reassure him they will catch Callaghan the right way.
Video footage from the laboratory accident reveals that the lost test pilot was Callaghan's daughter, Abigail, meaning that Callaghan is seeking revenge on Krei. Callaghan interrupts Krei at a public event and attempts to destroy his headquarters using Krei's teleportation portal. After a lengthy battle, the team deprives Callaghan of his microbots and the mask, saving Krei, but the portal remains active. Baymax detects Abigail alive inside and leaps into the portal with Hiro to rescue her. They find Abigail in hyper-sleep, but Baymax is struck by debris on the way back out, disabling his thrusters. With no other option but to sacrifice himself, Baymax activates his armor's rocket fist and asks Hiro if he is satisfied with his care in order to deactivate him. Hiro tearfully agrees and Baymax fires his rocket fist before deactivating, propelling Hiro and Abigail back through the portal before it closes. Abigail is taken to the hospital while Callaghan is arrested.
Sometime later, Hiro discovers Baymax's health care chip clenched in the rocket fist. He rebuilds Baymax's body, who keeps his memories and emotions due to his health care chip, and he and Hiro share a hug. The university awards Hiro a grant and dedicates a building in Tadashi's honor, and Hiro, Baymax and their friends continue protecting the city.
In the end I can moral that - If we do good, good will happens with us ultimately. And hate and revenge can never be the solution of your angers.
I liked the movie, and I like fallout boy, but something about the combination was cringy. All the montages with the fallout boy songs were a bit off.
What a fun movie! I went in completely cold, so I had no clue what kind of movie it was going to be. Fun. Colorful. The skeleton of the movie (Hiro's character arc) could have been a tad stronger, and I feel that I like it less and less the more time passes (though I still like it a lot). The San Franokyo setting was awesome.
Cool animated superhero film, one that I think is good.There are moments I like about 'Big Hero 6' and moments I don't like quite as much. I'll start with the positive parts. The animation is excellent, as is the music (nice song from Fall Out Boy). It also has a fair amount of heart, not as much as the film intends to add but still more than most.Now for the lesser things; that aren't bad per se, just not as well done in my opinion. The plot doesn't feel like anything too refreshing, I feel it's a story I've mostly seen elsewhere; in a few areas it kinda reminded me of the sorta stuff you'd see in a Scooby Doo episode, at least in terms of the twists and/or antagonists. I, also, don't love the design for Baymax - making a character with no facial expressions or true emotion always makes it harder to get attached to them. I do like his purpose, mind.As for the cast, they're decent just not memorable to me. Ryan Potter and Daniel Henney are solid as Hiro and Tadashi, I enjoy their bond together. I'm struggling to remember any of the others though.All in all, a good film - it's just missing a couple of things that would've made it greater.
A big guy with a hart of gold. His appearance is funny from the start. Amazing movie!
PS: best fistbump ever
I loved this movie start to finish. From Hiro losing Tadashi, and to Hiro starting big hero six, it is very eye-watering. Sort of an opening eye to losing someone you love. Really good storyline and keeps you wanting to watch more, and more.
Let me put it this way:....This is by far (along with zootopia) one of the best recent Disney picks but sadly this is not a valuable price anymore, because sadly Disney has become an Trash-Below Average company.This story is worst than simple, is a painful amount of cliches and exposition that gave me a damm headache all along the way
But it improves with the characters, because its so rare to care about new characters in Disney new stuff, that this really gave me a break, I mean these characters are really likeable (with exceptions of course like the worthless plot-twisting-villian) and fun to watch
Also BTW Stan Lee´s always a thumbs up
But still, a stupid movie to watch when there´s nothing left on TV
This is a great film with some really cool characters and gadgets. Hiro and Baymax are a great duo and they complement the rest of the team as well. I quite enjoyed all the futuristic technology like the nanobots. The story was so-so with the plot twist being both bland and incredulous.
Intriguing storyline. Nothing short of beautiful animation. Wonderful voice acting. Enjoyable for all ages.
It was a pretty good movie, excellent animation, but then the main protagonist friends betray him and allow the villain to escape. Then it declined into another piece of Hollywood garbage.
I'm burnt out on super hero movies & I don't like watching a whole movie about who's robot can fight the best. My robot beat up your robot. So what?
Just amazing.Never seen anything Like this.But dont like the part of Tadashi's death.
Just watched this movie today with my kiddos and it was awesome! Wait until the end, past the credits for a special surprise
I hadn't done any research before watching this other than being aware that the reviews were well received.
As a fan of animated movies I thought I'd make this tonight's movie.
My wife's reaction was less than enthusiastic upon seeing my choice.
But don't you love it when a movie turns out to be a complete surprise and exceeds any expectations you may have had?
I looked across at her to see her laughing and smiling. She thoroughly enjoyed it and so did I.
I would have liked to have given it a 10 but there was just a minor flaw in the storyline which didn't really make sense.
Overall highly recommended for all ages. Great humor, fabulous animation.
Fantastic movie! It's really touching and the plot is well designed
I cried twice to see the white fat man, I was very moved. As I get older, I find that my heart becomes softer and more touchable. I feel good about it. I'm proud of it. Am I not so lucky as those who look down on one today and think the other tomorrow? The world to me is full of many good things, and even if I cannot enjoy them now, I am not in a hurry to judge, leaving time to examine them again. I think this is the dividend of my personal growth.White fat man actually told a lot, told the family, told the friendship, told about revenge, faith, growth story. Of course they're cliched, but isn't it great that different characters and different stories can send me energy over and over again? In addition, the film is really so warm, I believe that everyone who watches it will want to have a white fat man of their own.
Awesome movie. You have everything a movie should have in this one.
I haven't seen this movie since a while ago, but I still think it's amusing. I like how this decent movie is inspired by Marvel Super Heroes. That's nice. I don't know why Disney chose T.J Miller to play Fred, though. I've heard he isn't very nice in real life. But overall, this is a great film that's sure to entertain the whole family.
First saw this in college during my first year and this movie has remained a staple in my favorite animated movies list since then. Pure joy, tears, and everything in between, this delivers all the emotions you could possibly want from a great movie. Will be calling my next pet hairy baby.
I LOVE Big Hero 6 it has so much action and humor and heart it is just a really fun superhero team up movie!!!!
This movie is so good but the final is horrible. The real villian of movie isn't jail
The plot of the movie is nothing new, but the Baymax is really so cute. The movie combines Disney and Marvel. The character settings and action scenes are indeed Marvel, much like the superheroes in the comics, but the theme is still Disney's conventional things about family and growth.
Honestly this is a great animation,the story is both funny and sad with a great meaningi sobbed my eyes out at one scene
It is obvious that Big Hero 6 was the best animation film of 2014.I always appreciate those movies which motivates us and especially children towards science and Big Hero 6 is a awesome example of that.This movie movie was full of fun and show us the importance of family,friends and how to clam down when we lost our loved ones.when it comes to characters i must say Baymax is truly a masterpiece,every children and people of all age surely will love this character because of his loving and HUGGING personality.The special bond between Baymax and Hiro was incredible and that made this movie my favorite next to How to train your dragon.Big Hero 6 is that kind of movie that make us believe that i can be super hero and that differ it from other superhero movie.And last of all when it comes to villain,Big Hero 6 movie did an outstanding job because there was quiet a good story behind his evilness.the graphic and sound quality was truly marvelous.
I watched this movie with my children and they enjoyed it so much. They would like to see the movie again. Family movie, thanks.
My almost 6 year old son was very excited to see this movie. He loves robots, superheroes, sci-fi (especially Star Wars and Transformers) and Disney/Pixar. He was confused and scared by the amount of death and destruction. I think it may be because the movie seems so much more realistic than others. The animation is very life-like and unlike Wreck it Ralph/Incredibles/The Lego Movie, etc, the setting, while futuristic, isn't cartoonishly fantastic, which I think makes the character's grief, fear and anger seem very intense. We had to leave the theater early.
I loved it! And my son loved many aspects of the film, but ultimately he was overwhelmed. Even if you don't think of your kid as especially sensitive, he/she may be overwhelmed by this one...
It is a simple and easy-to-understand story, full of kinship and warmth, full of funny adventures. This is an extraordinary imaginative film, but also an animated film suitable for the whole family. Although it is an animation, it can make adults feel a warm movie from it
Super cool fight, also has super warm heart warm picture. Hiro's brother also works hard for Hiro. How can genius be so wasteful? Only these machines can catch Hiro's heart! My brother designed a warm heart baby max for him, a small expert in personal health, and gave him a warm and baby Max hug after his brother died.
In the movie, its every move, it seems clumsy, innocent and beautiful, zero flaws, no flaws, with its high warm heart, melt the world
The film is clearly an animated version of the superhero blockbuster, yet another example of Disney's increasingly adult approach. There are cute points and funny points on the plot, each scene is to mobilize the audience's feelings, or happy or sad, several high-water points are very exciting, the rhythm dripping flowing, there is also a moving emotional.The film is clearly an animated version of the superhero blockbuster, yet another example of Disney's increasingly adult approach. There are cute points and funny points on the plot, each scene is to mobilize the audience's feelings, or happy or sad, several high-water points are very exciting, the rhythm dripping flowing, there is also a moving emotional.
Anga-influenced, team-based teen superhero antics with an emphasis on engineering over fantasy and mysticism. Nobody's struck by a meteor or experimented upon by the government, they're all just classmates at a prestigious technical school with a very specific set of strengths and passions. That's refreshing, both for the way it keeps the story grounded and for the limitations it places on the core characters. They're each decidedly human, even the cute inflatable robot whose personality is dictated by a memory card. Paired with a bright, friendly sense of style and a spacious, unique world that's loaded with fun little surprises, it's a visual and conceptual triumph. Unfortunately, the greater plot runs a bit generic, its well-worn twists and turns telegraphed a mile away, so those quirks and design touches are leaned on quite often. It's well-made, good natured, unique in a very crowded crossroad of genres, but too complacent and vanilla with its storytelling. Given a little more ambition, a sequel could do really well.
Oscar deserves it! The plot is compact and exciting, the visual sense and sense of humor are good, the ending is also very touching, the white is too cute!
The protagonist is very cute and takes care of people. I like this character very much.
Finally! A movie I will agree with the Academy on, if it wins Best Animated Feature. This movie is definitely up there with 'Bolt' and 'Wreck-it Ralph.' It's got an 'Incredibles' feel to it, and is one of the best movies to come out in 2014. I absolutely loved it, and now I forgive Disney for making the atrocity that was 'Frozen.' This is seriously one of the best, if not THE best, Disney movie ever. This is one of the very few times I agree with Rotten Tomatoes. It holds a 90% 'fresh' rating, and I think that that is an accurate rating. (It should have been 100%, though. Who are these critics who caused it to be less than 100%? They need to see it again.) I will definitely see this again when it hits our discount theater, and then buy it on Blu-ray the day it comes out. This was apparently based on a Marvel comic, and I wish this movie great success, and hope this will convince Disney and Marvel to open the floodgates for more lesser-known Marvel properties. Baymax: On a scale of 1 to 10, how would you rate this film? The answer is 10.
Grade: A+, 10/10, 5/5 stars
It's a decent though unmemorable and plain superhero film but with the now well-eatablished gorgeous Pixar look. What really makes the film shine though is the instantly winning character of Baymax, who will appeal to adults and children alike, elevating the whole thing from just quite good to really good. Stick with it until Baymax is there
This is a great Disney film. The plot is after a boy loses his brother to an explosion, he brings together a team of superheroes to find the man responsible for his brother's death. This film had very unique animation and likable characters. The voice cast is stellar and funny. T.J Miller is good in his role as well. Watch it it's fun!
The first theme of the film is affection. The author writes the relationship between the protagonist and his brother. After the protagonist's brother died, the protagonist seems to give up everything. Until he found out that his brother's death was strange, he cheered up again. When facing the forces of darkness, he did not compromise and determined to ask his brother Returning to justice, including the professor who became wicked and crazy because of his daughter's accident, all described family relationships.The second theme is friendship. The protagonist's group of friends are unwilling to give up on the protagonist and are willing to get justice for his brother. When facing the powerful dark forces, they will not abandon or give up. Fight alongside the hero. Another thing is that the relationship between Baymax and the protagonist is friendship and family-like. At the last moment of life and death, he came forward and rescued the protagonist, which made people feel warm.
The plot is just so-so, but the Baymax is so cute. Many people have such a person in their lives. He brings you the most precious and beautiful memories in life. When he leaves, the whole soul seems to be hollowed out. Some people finally choose to be just as beautiful as him, and they have courage to keep going.
A perfect animation. I just don't give 10 because of the end that Allistair Krei get out unscathed, nor was he arrested
'I can say he has really good decision making, but his throughs are just not good yet.' An over weight womens powerful quote. Then a graduating student walks by in a decorated red body suit (power). In this film a robot is on its way to see a water fall, but the train turns on a dime and the robot ends up standing in front of Dennys thinking about sandras face.
Regardless of whether their stories are aimed at entertaining youngsters, or teens, or adults - When it comes to the likes of superhero movies - I, for one, am getting so sick and tired of this particular genre of film and its 'seen-it-all-before' scenarios.Containing every single superhero cliche in the book (and then some) - 'Big Hero 6', pretty much, amounted to being nothing but a big zero in my books.
Pretty average movie. There isn't anything very unique or remarkable about the story.
The details of animation is goooood and Baymax is sooo cute. I'd like to give this movie a high score because of this lovely character.
At the beginning, the plot was not very attractive, but Baymax made me completely immersed in the story.Who doesn't love such a soft and intimate robot! No one!No one does not love him.
Big Hero 6 is fantastic. Every time I watch it I find myself laughing and loving it more than the last time. It has great music, a great storyline, and amazing character development. Hiro learns so much as he goes through a loss and finds himself in a dark place. His friends Fred, Wasabi, Go, and honey lemon help him out of his darkness and realize that he doesn't need to be alone. Tadashi helps Hiro even in his time of need wherever he is. Baymax shows what it means to have a friendship and pushes Hiro to do better.
Hiro uses his intelligence to achieve the unthinkable and makes it possible. He creates a team to take down the bad guy and they become a superhero team.
Baymax made me laugh countless number of times.
The animation is another great point. It makes you feel like you're watching real people.
This movie knows how to break your heart and make you smile.
If you weren't ugly crying when that line was spoken the last time, I would ask God to have mercy on your soul, but it would be obvious you don't have one. Great, great movie.
Nice to see the marshmallow man getting work again. I think its been 30 years.
Big Hero 6 is essentially the animated Guardians of the Galaxy. Both movies were based on obscure comics that few people knew about but became very successful. Even the cast in this film, very much, reminds me of the characters in Guardians. All-in-all Big Hero 6 is a very fun ride with memorable characters and a brilliant looking world. However, there are a couple issues that prevent it from being perfect.First of all, the film looks amazing. This really uses its 3D animation to the fullest. The designs are awesome and so is the science being employed here even if it is out there. However, this is a world where this type of science is possible so I rolled with it. The film has a great score and soundtrack which really helps get you pumped especially during the action scenes. When this film gets going it's a very fun ride.However, what truly drives this movie is its characters. Now, the main character, Hero, I actually thought was rather bland. He was, by no means, bad, but I found him the weakest of the primary cast. Hero's friends are all awesome. You have a superhero fanboy named Fred, a neat freak named Wasabi, chemistry whiz named Honey Lemon, and an adrenaline junkie named Go Go Tamago. Wasabi and Tamago are especially awesome to me. Tamago reminds me of Raven from the Teen Titans animated series. Wasabi is my second favorite character. His jokes, to me, were hilarious and he can be a badass too.Lastly you have Baymax who is my favorite character in the entire film. He is hilarious, badass, and just very lovable. The way him and Hero play of each other is also very well-done. His design is also great. It's simple but effective.Now, I do have a couple issues with this movie. It is a Disney film and you can see their fingerprints on this. Some of the classic Disney animated tropes are here mainly in the beginning and the end. There is a character who you know is going to die the minute he's introduced. Also it's pretty easy to guess who the villain is. They try to throw you for a loop with who it is in the first half, but it wasn't that hard to guess. In the beginning it really came down to two possible people and I could easily guess which one it was long before we got halfway through which brings me to my next point.The villain himself I thought was weak. I love his costume, but, as a character, I didn't find him that interesting. He has a typical revenge motive which I find tired. In Disney films the villain's motive is usually revenge or to gain power. The motivation wouldn't matter as much if he had more presence to him. Disney villains of the past had flimsy motivations but they leave a big impact on you like Jafar, Scar, Maleficent, and so on, but he doesn't.Also, the ending could've been trimmed down a bit. There is one scene after they defeat the villain where they have to go save this one character that has only had one scene prior so we have no emotional attachment to. The scene only seem to have been there to have a heartfelt moment where you think one of the main characters is dead but he comes back almost immediately after which makes that scene pretty much pointless. Unless that character they save becomes important in the sequel I see not importance to that scene other than to have a token heartfelt moment that every Disney film needs to have.Overall, Big Hero 6, like Guardians of The Galaxy, is a fun ride that both children and adults can enjoy. The characters are memorable, it looks amazing, the action is good, and it has plenty of funny and heartfelt moments. If you like films like Guardians then definitely give this a look.
I enjoy the story and the aesthetic of this film. It's quite well done and the main protagonist is really the highlight of the film. Following his experiences and character development, his grief, and his friendship with Baymax, it's easy to care about both these characters. This character dynamic really carries the film though, cause the 'twist villain' is just unbelievable and doesn't work at all. His motivation doesn't seem to make any sense. Other characters were quite unlikable as well, particularly the teenage stereotypes, as they don't really develop as characters and the tropes are quite painful to watch.
I enjoyed this Disney film as it is a movie about a group of smart kids trying to take on a villain. However, I enjoyed the movie more when it was the kid Hiro and the inflatable robot Baymax interacting as the film was more humorous during these stages. It kind of turns into more of an action film when Hiro becomes dead set on finding out and stopping the person who stole his inventions. Still, it was good in this phase, but watching Baymax cross a room and getting around stuff was super funny.The story has a young boy who has already graduated high school and instead of taking the next step to college, he instead uses a robot to win money bot fighting. His older brother tries to get him on the right path by introducing his brother to his friends from school and his invention Baymax. This does the trick and so Hiro invents something called microbots that the head of the brother's school likes enough to enlist Hiro into the school. Unfortunately, there is an explosion and Hiro's brother dies; however, the strange discovery of a warehouse mass producing Hiro's microbots sends Hiro on a quest for revenge! He soon enlists his brother's friends help as he designs suits that use the super brainy teens specialties as powers.The film has a lot of memorable moments as it is fun watching Baymax first appearances. I also liked it when Hiro was designing the other's suits. After that, it becomes more of an action film as they try and find out the identity of the villain and stop him when they learn of his insane plan. I liked the characters, Baymax being my favorite, love it when his battery is going low and he is petting the cat going, 'Hairy baby.'So, this one was a really good film from Disney. It came after Frozen and a lot of people seem to get angry that this one did not catch on fire the way Frozen did; however, Frozen did have songs that were really catchy so that is probably what gave it an edge. Seriously, I think both films were made by the same person anyways so I am sure he doesn't care that this one did not do what Frozen did as it still performed very well at the box office. Still do not understand why a film with no sets and no actors can cost over 150 million though...
Heartwarming decision by Baymax until the end. Hiro's well-being was his top priority. That 'Are you satisfied with your care?' hit me hard.
The technology and talents of all the characters were beyond my comprehension. GENIUS!
How could a giant white robot with an expressionless face make someone feel better? Sometimes, presence is all that matters.
This movie taught me the essence of confidence and perseverance. If you put your heart and mind into something, things are possible.
He's been a very important character in this movie, and it was so smart of him to build Baymax.
BThe way it tugs at the hearts of everyone, and not just targeted to the kids, made it pretty awesome. And honestly, we just loved the movie because of Baymax, come on!
Honestly, I just got forced watching this movie by my child, and I'm glad I did. This movie appeals to all ages. It combines this one amazing animation, writing and a set of characters that are full of personalities that will make you love them a lot!
The movie has a way that teaches you life lessons even though it was an animated movie. A lot of human emotions were involved in this one, and I gotta admit, I maybe cried a little.
The relationship between Hiro, the main character, and Baymax, the robotic nurse his brother left him, was special and entertaining. A great film, one of the best.
And I'm glad they did! It is a fantastic film for everyone, and Baymax is one of the most entertaining characters that I saw.
I would pay a lot of bucks just to hug that adorable and lovable robot! This film is not just a kiddie movie, but has an emotional take that is perfect for both kids and adults alike!
It didn't feel forced for me and it entertained me through and through. The Disney magic still lives on!
This was a wonderful family movie with a great story. No agendas and no forced narratives. Simply a Fun origin story. Waiting for the sequel!
If you love Disney and Marvel, then this film is definitely for you. The tandem between the main character and robot is phenomenal and the bond between them made the core of this movie.
Watching a connection between humans and a robot who can actually coexist triggered my imaginative side and taught me the value of genuine friendship. True friendship might come hard but this movie showed me a bond through thick and thin.
Fun story, cool characters and a lot of emotions. Hands down to Disney and Marvel for creating this masterpiece of a movie.
It's a shame that this movie is so often forgotten, by myself as much as anyone else. Maybe it was our sudden saturation of super hero content but regardless, this is a very fun movie. It's funny, emotional, very well animated and inventive. It's not quite on the level of The Incredibles films but this is still very much worth watching.
Solid animation, i like the colors. the characters suck and are all annoying. also why is there fall out boy? im not an emo middle schooler anymore.
ending was predictable
Big Hero 6When you have an art product that exceeds the sum of its parts you have something remarkable indeed.High art is that rare moment when you have a combination of art, music, theatre, literature and painting or any such combination that come together to form a new work of art, where all of the technical constraints disappear and you are left with something that often defies description.This cartoon is a combination of brilliant story, brilliantly realised with incredible special effects and an incredible musical score.People talk about Into The Spiderverse but that was preachy, simplistic, with a quite ridiculous story. Just nothing in comparison to the splendour of this movie.This was perfection personified.
Its such a great movie and so emotional. It's very exciting and heartbreaking at the same time. I loved it when i saw it for the first time and absolutely recommend it to friends. If you are someone who enjoys watching something emotional then i can bet you will experience an emotional roller coaster watching this one. It's very interesting and i love the characters development. I don't usually cry watching animated movies but i did cry 4-5 times watching this one. so make sure to grab some tissues and popcorn when u watch it. It's really awesome.
Cool culture and story flow. Even the title is a charming reflection of a badly translated Japanese anime title.
It was actually a good movie it is just the cartoon for me dosen't deserve more than 5 you know what I am saying
One of my favorite modern Disney movies. The jokes are great, the characters and city are amazing and animation is stunning. I loved the detective aspect of the movie which gave it a mystery vibe. Disney should focus on making more movies like this and not remaking the good ones into bad live actions.
I fell in love with this movie. He is so charming and special. Never get tired of watching this movie.
It starts off with young Hiro Hamada taking part in underground robot parts in San Fransokyo. Hiro's brother Tadashi wants him to do something useful and get away from the lowlifes involved in the robot fights.Hiro is introduced to a giant medical robot Baymax that Tadashi is developing at university and is introduced to Professor Callaghan, the head of robotics. Hiro creates microbots that he brings to a science fair to impress the professor and enrol at the university. A shady businessman is interested in buying the micropbots off Hiro.When a fire erupts at the science fair Tadashi dies trying to save the professor. Some time later Hiro, Baymax and a solitary microbot battles with a masked man who made a copy of the microbots. Hiro suspects that the fire may had been started deliberately in order to steal the microbots.Hiro teams up with a group of clever students who were friends with his brother and they use their skills to become superheroes to stop the masked man.Big Hero 6 is based on a Marvel Comic character. It blends its animation style with Japanese Anime. Kids will lap it up, Baymax who looks a bit like the Michelin Man is the moral heart of the story as he drums an anti violence message to Hiro.However this is another Disney animation that almost seems like by the numbers with the predictable twist when it comes to the reveal of the villain.
At first i did not want to see this movie because the trailers were kind of lame. But me and my friend watched it together and it was AMAZING. Baymax was a hilarious character and made me laugh all the way through the movie. It was also so heartbreaking at the end when he died.
After his older brother dies in an explosion, Hiro slips into depression. He accidentally activates Baymax, a healthcare robot his later brother Tadashi had invented. He, Baymax, and his friends then go on an adventure to stop a villain.
(Soppy plot description. I am really sorry about that. Much better than how my description makes it sound).
This is one of Disney's best movies! One of my personal favourite superhero movies!
Why?
Well, for one, it's technological, not mystical.
The music is soo good!!! 'Immortals' is now one of my top 5 favourite Disney songs! The music score soars.
It has twists and turns and has a fantastic car chase and story. Has great emotional weight.
Definitely recommended.
Terrible. made me laugh twice and barely. the jokes were childish and corny. I didn't want to finish it (1 viewing)
One of the best modern animated Disney films out there. The setting is phenomenal, it manages to be both futuristic while also staying completely feasible in our own world. It makes a sort of superhero origin story sort of thing but has it feeling like a friendship based Disney adventure instead. The 'loss of parents' hero trick is overplayed but here it is flipped on its side where our hero starts without parents and loses family in the same story. Baymax is a lovable sidekick and each of the side characters manage to leave the spotlight to Hiro while also developing interesting and unique personalities that the audience is able to find some of themselves in. The villain has a good motive and while not amazing is still good enough to hold his own in such a fun movie.
This movie never ceases to amaze and entertain us, just love it on so many levels.
I have always loved animated films, whether they be by Walt Disney, DreamWorks, Marvel, Miyazaki or any other storytellers out there, but of late I haven't enjoyed the anime style and artwork that has been delivered. Personally I thought Frozen was so over rated, sure there was a couple of good tunes, cool, characters, interesting storyline, but it lacked that special something Mr. Disney and his crew always managed in years gone by to bring out in me. Don't get me wrong I do really like frozen but nowhere near as much as I am supposed to according to everyone else on the planet. I'm not sure what it is that I love about animated films or where the love developed from but I find myself far more attracted to them in my later years than I ever did in my earlier life. So when I heard about Big Hero 6 and the fact that both Disney and Marvel were collaborating together I pretty much had instant tingles, my expectations without seeing a single thing went higher than any film I have anticipated before. What the hell was Big Hero 6 and why hadn't I heard of it up until now?!? Why did I ever stop reading the comics!?!?Hiro Hamada is a young 14 year old boy genius who knows how to make things work, he loves his gadgets and robots. Hiro lives in the futuristic city of San Fransokyo with his brother Tadashi and his aunt who has taken the boys in after the loss of their parents when Hiro was three years old. Hiro spends most of his days creating and then destroying robots in underground robot battles for cash, the robots he creates devastate the competition without any mercy. After being arrested for attending one of these illegal battles Tadashi on the promise of taking Hiro to another back alley for another fight detours to his university where Hiro discovers that the genius gene doesn't fall far from the tree at all. Tadeshi introduces Hiro to his five Uni friends who each are working on their own scientific breakthroughs. Wasabi, Go Go, Honey Lemon, and Fred. Tadeshi then shows Hiro his latest work, a personal walking talking health specialist named Baymax who can cure all with his sweet soft tones and loving temperament. Hiro instantly loves what he sees within the university and decides he must attend. To get into the university the heads of the campus hold a special talent show where potential applicants can show their work and hopefully the university board are convinced enough to sign up the entrants giving them a scholarship to attend. Hiro creates a way to revolutionise life as we know it and wins his way into the university to the joy of everyone. While celebrating and getting ready to leave a tragedy strikes the university and Hiro loses far more than his exciting new project. With the help of his new five friends from the Uni Hiro reinvents Baymax and together the team of 6 become heroes ready to find the truth to what really happenedI thought this film had it all, I loved it from its beginning to its after credits surprise. I laughed pretty much all the way though, Baymax really grabs hold of you by your heart strings, you can't help but fall in absolute love with him. The way the animators make him move and react is adorable and will definitely keep you smiling throughout. The animation is outstanding and deserves so much applause, everything from the 3D art work to the colour to the rendering is perfect, there is nothing to pick at here in the way the film is made. The voice acting isn't any different either, the directors Don Hall and Chris Williams have chosen an amazing cast and all do a fantastic job for their individual characters as well as their group dynamics, with a couple of recognizable voices amongst the fray as well you will totally love everyone. Staring the voice talents of Scott Adsit as Baymax, Ryan Potter as Hiro, Daniel Henney as Tadashi, T.J. Miller as Fred, Jamie Chung as Go, Damon Wayans Jr. as Wasabi, Genesis Rodriguez as Honey Lemon, James Cromwell as Robert Callaghan and Alan Tudyk as Alistai
What an amazing movie! just be honest, i don't know what weakness in the film. I first watched this film in class 1 senior high school and until now I still play this film. never bored I played this film repeatedly because while watching this film mixed emotional, start from sadness, anger and weeping. yes, I came to tears twice in this film which is when Hiro lost his brother Tadashi Hamada and when the Baymax sincerely cared and entertained Hiro. it makes my heart so melting. indeed the film production from Disney never disappoints. especially in the big hero six movie, a new icon, he is Baymax. surely if baymax is in the real world, everyone wants to have it, including me, I want to hug baymax! in my opinion this film deserves to be watched at anyone age because it teaches what it means to be a sincerity from an older brother to his sister and also support in a friendship.Thank you to Disney for creating a film that is very emotional and very valuable.
The quality of the film is actually not bad. In particular, the animation is pretty cool. The plot is OK too, with some twists and turns. However, I would give it a 0/10 rating due to plagiarism. Some of its action scenes are simply copied from the 2008 thriller Iron Man and the 2004 stunner Spider-Man 2.
This is a great film, even though the kids were sniffling in the first 15 minutes as Disney offs a major character, one that they actually did some chracter build up. After the death and Hiro's invention being stolen, he vows payback...but how? He creates superheroes of his nerd friends, giving them powers based on their nerd-ness.The film borrows some ideas and lines from other films and I wished I had seen more battle bots, but such was not the case. The film used/misused a lot of the new cutting edge nanotechnology extrapolating it to a fun degree.My 11 year old grandniece loved this film. I will give it her rating.
I am not usually a fan of cartoon films. But this one takes the biscuit and the cake.
I cried and I cried and I cried .... and cried.It's such an amazing film. With an excellent storyline.Baymax is my love. And I love him.
Definitely give this film a go
Big Hero 6 iis based off of a young teenager (Hiro) and his new friend (Baymax) that live in a city called San Fransokyo, which is a mix of Tokyo and San Francisco. He also has an older brother (Tadashi). Baymax´s is a robot and his sole purpose is to help take care of others in need. But something happens where he is thrown into dangerous situation. He recruits his friends, Go Go Tamago, Wasabi, Honey Lemon, and Fred, to become a crime fighting crew. I will guarantee you don´t figure out who the bad guy is until it comes to that point.
This a good movie for anybody that likes a little bit of comedy with some action. It has some diverse emotion scenes where the tone and sort of emotion kind of changes throughout the movie. It also has some good mystery, like who the bad guy is who they are against, who is there friend, and who is not. This adds an element of surprise and relief when it all comes together.Big Hero 6 has a lot of ups and downs when it comes to emotions. It can go from extremely sad, to really funny, and really heart-warming for some people. An example of the emotions changing throughout the movie is when Hiro is very mad with his team and turns Baymax into a weapon that hurts people instead of what he was made to do; help everyone. Baymax has these chips that program him with a helpful personality that Hiro's brother , Tadashi, made for him. Hiro, wanting to give Baymax some self-defense, made a chip that has every form of martial arts inside of it so that Baymax can help protect and defend everybody while still keeping his original personality that keeps him from hurting anyone. In this scene Hiro gets extremely mad and frustrated so he goes to Baymax and takes out his original ¨good¨ chip and is only left with the self-defense ¨bad¨ chip. He then says ¨Baymax, destroy¨ and Baymax goes on a mission to kill the bad guy without any other thought in his mind. The entire team tries to stop him before he kills the man that is considered the antagonist and eventually do but suffer a big cost on their morals and integrity.
This teaches Hiro that he was out of place and should settle this and learns that everyone can be good and he should strive to get everyone there. This is a very important moment in the movie as it is a turning point for the whole team, especially Hiro and it allows them to pursue the antagonist without any anger, vengeance, or revenge. It really brings out the emotion in anyone that watches it.Another reason to watch this movie is it's intriguing mystery and not knowing what comes next. This is important for a movie like this because it keeps the watchers guessing and actually wanting to know what happens. This is shown all throughout the movie as they try to figure out who exactly the real antagonist. The team travels all around the city trying to find an answer to all of the fighting and trying to find out who is behind it all. The whole movie is filled with twists and turns that make you think more and more about who you can trust, and who you can´t.
This movie is a perfect match for anyone that likes a little mystery in a story. It gives just the right amount of hints to who it is without actually giving away them.Big Hero 6 is a great movie for all ages, from little kids to elderly people. This movie will please all. I would recommend it for people who liked really any other fantasy disney movie like Cars, Frozen, and Astro Boy which all use animated objects that keep the story rolling, but Big Hero 6 is unlike any other movie with the aspect of using robots to send a message of peace. m
'Big Hero 6' is somewhat of a departure from form for Disney - the crisp animation; amusing characters and rapid-fire narrative are all there, but it just doesn't 'feel' like the usual fare from the famous animation studio who are perhaps more synonymous with magical lands; ugly, ruthless villains; muscular heroes; beautiful princesses and mythical adventure stories. This is Disney attempting to branch off into superhero territory - an attempt at placing each of their eggs into a basket which is squared solely at the adolescent demographic rather than the family unit of mum and dad, brother and sister.It's difficult to put here that the film is a failure - I liked its twists and turns where, villain and would-be villain are cleverly transposed; I thought it executed its tonal shifts between action-driven fun; horror and depicting the grieving process really well, but there was something missing from it to have me think it was better than pretty good.Principally, the film's actually rather cryptic title (don't worry, it isn't a sequel - there aren't 5 other entries to see before this one!) alludes to its protagonist, who is named Hiro. Hiro is a boy-genius on the mathematical/engineering level who lives with his brother and aunt above her donut shop in a future-set city which is a (reasonably) clever amalgamation of San Francisco and Tokyo. At least, it has something resembling a Chinatown district and that huge red bridge we'd all recognise in a flash if it was shown to us.A master builder and inventor, Hiro is squandering his talents in constructing inconspicuous-looking robots for a kind of miniature robot themed 'fight-club' among the grimy backstreets of his post-modern home city. Said practice is illegal, yet he persists - a kind of automatronic Eddie Felson amongst a sea of other lowlifes and gamblers who keeps winning big off the back of a boyish grin; innocent voice and some po-faced enthusiasm which has his opponents think they can win easily.One night, he and everyone else are busted after a raid - his brother Tadashi, another scientist and inventor, reiterates that he is on thin ice. Hiro, despite possessing an obvious talent, is sniffy about it - indifferent as to following in his brother's footsteps in studying at the local university. The film provides him with one other defining characteristic: that his parents died in an off-screen accident - usually a sign that an adolescent in a film needs only one more push to completely topple over the edge.Disaster strikes when, at an open evening at said university, a fire engulfs all within its vicinity and claims the life of Hiro's brother - just as Hiro was beginning to realise what a fantastic thing it might be to study there. In order to infer just how much of an impact Hiro might have, the film has him provide a Steve Jobs-like presentation on a recent invention he concocted: millions of tiny building blocks which will forge themselves to whatever neuro-command you provide them with - something resembling what Carrie White might have been able to do with Lego. All might not be as it seems, though, when the one remaining robotic block Hiro possesses seems to want to join its brothers, despite the rest of them apparently having gone up in flames. This pushes Hiro out of his depression and onto his quest to find out if all is as it seems...Hiro is chiefly helped in his quest to discover the truth behind the fire; his brother's death and where his place is in life by a large white robot named Baymax, which was his brother's invention designed as a first aid response to medical emergencies when cries of pain are detected. In spite of being made for this purpose, the robot is somewhat cumbersome - moving slowly to shift a chair out of the way when we first see him activated, despite under the impression somebody is in need of urgent help. As a supporting character, his monosyllabic putdowns and statements at the most heightened of times are genuinely amusing; meanwhile off screen, he is no doubt shipping tens of thousands of action figures and plush toys.Where B-Max is responsible for the most important line of dialogue in the film, that of when he asks Hiro if '...eliminating {the villain} will improve your well-being', Hiro's other supporting acts in the form of a motley crew of young students from the university exist for less substantial reasons - forming a superhero troupe off the back of learning of Hiro's discoveries and leaping into action in a manner that seems to want to be subversive of the genre, but actually ends up being a little tacked-on.The film seems desperate to tuck into the substance behind the approaching fourth industrial revolution, dealing in the process with the co-existence of man and machine and what this signifies for the next generation as one potentially replaces the other. We witness Baymax, an otherwise passive entity enslaved to whatever programming he possesses, used to both help and harm, but nothing especially leaps out at you on the issue. I like how the film seems to encourage aspiration - going to university is construed as a good thing, not to mention the film seems to promote creative thought and imparts a number of positive messages along these lines to youngsters. The film is, however, largely a chaotic blur of colour; quips and spectacle - one that few will find particularly amusing.
Unique movie. From Disney outdid themselves. Excellent storyline. Interactive characters. Excellent animation and details. Dynamics, action and fun
With the development of technology that will have massive impact on the human experience this movie was far ahead of it's time.
Watched this with my little cousin. The animation is excellent. And it did create an atmosphere of San Franokyo. But showing the beautiful landscape did not help to push the story arc forward. This movie just wrapped a generic story arc under a robotic future look of SF.5/10
I'm puzzled how this movie didn't get a sequel.Animation, story, characters, villain it all was great.I do hear that they are making a big hero 6 show I'm positive that the show will be bad.Just give us the sequel instead.
Disney fully demonstrated the advantages of animated cartoons, the pictures, skills and effects are more beautiful than real people want. Rare control of the length of incitement, let me feel acceptable. What's the worst thing about it? ribenguizi flavor
Manga-influenced, team-based teen superhero antics with an emphasis on engineering over fantasy and mysticism. Nobody's struck by a meteor or experimented upon by the government, they're all just classmates at a prestigious technical school with a very specific set of strengths and passions. That's refreshing, both for the way it keeps the story grounded and for the limitations it places on the core characters. They're each decidedly human, even the cute inflatable robot whose personality is dictated by a memory card. Paired with a bright, friendly sense of style and a spacious, unique world that's loaded with fun little surprises, it's a visual and conceptual triumph. Unfortunately, the greater plot runs a bit generic, its well-worn twists and turns telegraphed a mile away, so those quirks and design touches are leaned on quite often. It's well-made, good natured, unique in a very crowded crossroad of genres, but too complacent and vanilla with its storytelling. Given a little more ambition, a sequel could do really well.
Definitely one of the best digitally animated movies out there...Baymax is the funniest, the sweetest and most lovable character I have seen on a screen since I don't know when.'Rocket fists make Freddy so happy'
This movie is really funny at some points. Each one of Todashi's friends get amazing superpowers as well as Hero and Baymax. It could be emotional for some people. WATCH IT
Seriously? Nobody else can see it? It's a lousy Power Rangers knockoff straight down to the rainbow-colored armor with the two ladies wearing pink and yellow. It does not get more obvious than that.And a cheap knockoff product deserves a cheap knockoff story. Everything, from the setup to the plot narrative and even the 'surprise' villain, is predictable to the point of being painful.The only thing the movie has going for it is its visuals. And you can tell the developers knew this, as they devote ample time to a San Fransokyo flyover in the beginning. But much like The Good Dinosaur, this only extends to the setting; the humans and BAYMAX look like they are made out of the exact same material.Screw Disney for putting this thing out, and screw the Academy for letting them blatantly purchase an Oscar just in time for their home theater release.
Great movie , nice to see how beautiful san francisco is/would been with all the japanese culture and elements !
Baymax is one of the funniest animated characters I've ever seen. I loved it. I couldn't stop laughing. The big huggable kind buddy
This is a great mashup of different genre: super hero movies, anime, Disney movies. Even if the plot is not the most original, the writing, directing, stunning animation and great voice acting make it a perfect movie for everyone, young or otherwise, who is into super heroes, anime or Disney movies. But others will surely enjoy it too!
After overdosing on Disney and superheroes, I urgently needed something to comedown.
I would never have expected in life that exactly this film could do it. It is one of the Marvelous Marvel films ever. And has revived some of the Disney tropes that have not been used since the days of Cinderella and the Jungle Book for a good reason.Probably no one is as surprised as me but all these things, all these ingredients and just these clichés have really promised me so that I could not get enough of this movie. Always I have the impression that time is standing still and I have discovered something new and just want to dive into this movie. I know that many things have been changed and there are some things that have nothing to do with the comic but ..
Who cares?
In space it does not look like 'Star Wars', 'Hellboy' is not a 'Men In Black' and the makers of 'Starship Troopers' never read the book. I was simply impressed, fascinated, encouraged, wanted to train, applauded and even had watery eyes at the end.Despite all these praises, unfortunately, I have to give a few criticisms:
The character relationships are resolved a bit too fast, the team is not exactly balanced and the members do not complement each other very well, it is called 'show, don't tell' but not 'just don't tell' and the end again is Typical Disney kitsch, but I think we would not be so over saturated with all the happy ending this movie would stand out a little better. It is a really very emotionally satisfying film that only suffers from the fact that it is between so many films that have tried the same.
But that makes it a hidden gem that I can always admire again.They say we are what we are But we don't have to be.
My Thoughts:
While I did enjoy this movie in some respects, I felt that the movie was to overly hyper for me. It got to the point of it being obnoxious, especially with the characters Fred and 'Honey Lemon'. Other than those few spots, the movie is a good watch, but definitely not for everybody.Grading:
Characters: 12/20
Acting: 15/20
Story: 14/20
Dialogue: 12/20
Animation: 18/20GRADE: 71% 7.1/10 C-
A great and funny movie for the whole family
Great story, nicely developed, animations were amazing
(Really recommend to watch this one together with your kids)
When i get the chance, i'll buy this one to watch again, stays a good movie even after watching it a few times
Big Hero 6 follows young Hiro Hamada (Ryan Potter) in mourning, he befriends the robot Baymax (Scott Adsit), with the aid of others they form a super hero team, together they must stop a mysterious kabuki-mask wearing villain.Stepping away from their usual fairytale formula Walt Disney Animated Studios adapts a Marvel comic book into it's first super hero movie.
It doesn't just follow the regular comic book movie formula either.Big Hero 6 is hilarious, while also very dramatic and emotional at other times.
It's also noteworthy the world they built. Combining the likes of San Francisco and Tokyo into a dazzling mega-city!It's so nice to see Disney make an awesome actiony movie, my main downfall is that some characters just aren't developed enough. Particularly the villain.
He is developed, but he needed way more screen time!All in all though, Big Hero 6 is a very welcome addition to the Walt Disney Animated Studio canon!
This movie was AMAZING in IMAX 3D. The animation and visual style were just amazing. I loved it. The characters are all memerable and charming. The story, while decent was a little clice and predictable at times. The twist that doea happen I found EXTREMELY predictable. I suppose kids wilk be suprises by it, but adults will see it coming. Watching this film at home doesn't look as impressive as when watching it on the big screen, but it's overwise a suprisingly entertaining film, with alot of heart, which I 100% recommend.
Big Hero 6 is a movie I could have easily missed, luckily for me I had the opportunity to see it when it went on general release. This is easily my favourite Disney 3D animated movie. The title character Hero Hamada has such an Interesting character arc, it's wonderful to see how his character shifts and changes throughout the story. His motivations are always clear and he doesn't stray away from them, that's so nice to see in a movie with the target demographic of children. Baymax as a character works really well bring out emotions in Hero and the writers know how to use this very well. He also has great comedic timing, he's genuinely very funny. The relationship that builds between Hero and Baymax becomes very compelling, you really care about the situation. The other characters on the team are a lot of fun but this movie is very much about Hero. The structure of this movie is quite strange, when you think about it it can be defined in 5 acts. I think this is interesting and refreshing to see, especially in an animated film. I'm a big fan and would reccomend this film to anyone
Review: I really enjoyed this movie though bleak it shows you that people are more than willing to kill for technology. The direction and screenplay are both really good. Both the casting and acting are really good also. All in all I would give this five out of a possible five stars.
Big Hero 6 is fun. There are plenty of plot holes, half-baked ideas and clumsy dialogue, but there are plenty of cool hero moments that will keep the kids entertained. Baymax is a great character and I'm sure we'll see more of his antics in the inevitable sequels. I do wonder why Disney decided to call this movie Big Hero 6, though, when it really has nothing to do with the original comic books.
Big hero 6 is a great movie filled with fun and adventure. It shows a young boy that he can take something he knows and put it to good use. That after everything that he has been through and more and inspire those around him to be just as great. It also shows that no matter how young or old you are you can still inspire those around you. It is a movie full of love and hopefulness. It also adds some humor to it and makes you laugh and cry. Take some time out of your day and give this movie a shot.
Missing part of Big Hero 6; here why the team of Marvel did not originally involved with other X-men or Marvels. Many fans read comic which is not unclear well story but well made. Silver Samurai and Sunfire need involved; Hiro's big brother is Sunfire actually identified. Shang Chi may involved or Amadeus Cho may involved. Best part more Asian heroes I loved. More Martial artists though Melinda May, African American heroine/heroes including Wakandan support or Captain America, Silk and Tony Stark. Charlie Chan's children's and Marvel runaways. Best part we need Baymax action like Winnie Pooh.
You go into this film having absolutely no idea what to expect. Then you are dragged through every emotion under the sun in the first 20 minutes. This is an incredible movie. So well or together, with incredible animation and design paired with amazing character development and an unforgettable script. This film is entertainment. What more could you want?
This is one of my favorite Disney movies because the characters are so very endearing. You will not regret watching this movie.
I have never thought much about robot animation movies. Was never a mecha guy myself but this small wonder is packed with lots of feels. It has a great inspiring and unique story with a good amount of humor as well. Be young or old, I full-heartedly recommend this movie.
Big Hero 6 is a highly entertaining film and another notch in the Disney/Pixar belt Great voice talents and a heart warming story. Lots of fun!
The dead of the brother and comdey didn't work together to me. The laughter of the audience died with the explosion.
This is an underrated animated film that needs to be discovered. The script is great, characters are very well etched- dare I say I even got emotional. This film may not have a great marketing budget or recognizable voice actors but do not let this interfere with your decision to give it a shot. (An underrated animation film destined to be a cult classic)
This film hits on many important issues that kids need to understand in life. It is beautifully written, wonderfully animated, and sadly underrated because Frozen came out around the same time. I love this film and have seen it many times, so should you!!! Please watch and enjoy :)
First of all, it was extremely uneven where it kept changing the story every few minutes and became a different movie and secondly, the tones were equally changing from serious to action packed to light-hearted and silly. The story was about this boy who loves going to 'Bot Fights' for money and gambling because he graduated school at 13 years old. Then he visits his brother's current college and see his brother's invention: An inflatable robot known to heal named 'Baymax'. Then there's a fire in the building and the brother goes to rescue a teacher--inevitably killing him in the fire, but somehow the robot survives and becomes the boy's only friend until the deceased brother's friends become his friend and they band together to become superheroes. The title refers to the friends, the kid and the robot as crime fighters. None of that was in the trailers. I was certain the title was the name of the robot. They should have promoted all the characters of the title on the poster and trailers and re-written this uneven mess. It felt very un-Disney and more like Dreamworks crossed with Anime.
This movie has glowing reviews but I just found it to be... obvious. The story (or the characters) is an obvious ripoff of How to Train Your Dragon, and there's even one scene where it's extremely obviously ripped off. The characters are pretty cliche as well. Everything they tried to do and all the emotional scenes just felt like a product to me. It felt soulless, forced. The animation and background is good. I liked the very final scene. But all in all, it seemed wrong. The creators just copied too many things from other previous films.
First off all, I just want to say that I don't usually like Disney movies because they are usually for little girls of just doesn't have much emotion or the characters are just plain bad. But big hero 6 is amazing. The characters are loveable and the story is brilliant! This is a movie for all ages and I would highly recommend u watch it!
Even after watching it for the first time in 3 years, Big Hero 6 is still an amazing film. The score and animation are both flawless, the writing and characters are mostly great (more on that later), and the plot is unique and the twist regarding the villain's identity is exactly what a twist should be: unexpected, but not completely out of nowhere (i.e. dropping subtle hints to set up the twist). Also, apart from the giant skyhole you've seen in every other movie finale from the past 20 years, the finale is creative, funny, well executed, and has a lot of heart. 
 My main problems with Big Hero 6 are that the villain is a bit too generic and TJ Miller voices a character (seriously, just stick to live action, TJ), but apart from that, the film is terrific. I highly encourage people to watch it
This movie has an interesting story, interesting characters, and fun animation. This movie isn't perfect, but overall its entertaining and enjoyable.This movie suffers from being too short. There are some problems with things like pacing that probably could've been fixed with a longer runtime, but overall its still good. If you haven't seen this move yet, there is an end credits scene.
I bought this movie for my kids years ago and it's not an opened until yesterday. I wasn't super excited about watching it but I was pleasantly surprised. This movie is fantastic! It kept my three and five-year-old totally engaged. We laughed, we cried, we clapped at the end. I really hope they make a sequel
In 2014, Disney released their 54th animated feature Big Hero 6, a film adaptation of a relatively unpopular comic book series by the same name. Alongside being critically acclaimed, scoring big at the box office, and winning the Oscar for Best Animated Feature, what people took away from the film was how Disney did something different, adapting a superhero comic into an animated feature. I myself loved this film back when it came out and even called it one of Disney's best....now I personally just find it good but a little overrated.As usual for Disney, the animation is simply breathtaking. The film is set in the fictional city San Fransokyo, a blend of San Francisco and Tokyo, and the very design of it just spills imaginative. I'm sure anyone obsessed with modern Japanese art and central Californian life will go nuts over the amount of details and buildings created for the somewhat futuristic city. Along with a city that could only be made for a comic, the characters themselves look like they were made for a comic too given their stylized and exaggerated designs. However, the true highlight of the animation are the multiple representations of robots, technology and special effects, and the animators certainly let their creative juices go to great use in crafting the multiple mechanics and graphics used for the film.That being said, the story itself is nothing all that special. It centers on robotics prodigy Hiro Hamada, who lost his brother, Tadashi, only leaving behind Tadashi's robot made with the sole purpose to aid people in need. After some shocking events catch on, Hiro transforms Baymax and his other friends, Go Go Tamago, Wasabi, Honey Lemon and Fred into a band of high-tech heroes. It's not hard to figure out the outcome, and most of the characters aren't all that memorable. Gogo is the tough athletic girl who's into speed, Honey Lemon is the bubbly chemist, Wasabi is the wise albeit neurotic laser enthusiast, and Fred is every stoner comic relief in the book....but I'd be lying if I said I didn't find him funny. Also, without giving much away, the reveal of the main villain is pretty obvious, although his motivations are built on vengeance from a horrible tragedy, so at least he has a decent reason for wreaking havoc.However, I will say that the relationship between Hero and Baymax is the most heartwarming aspect of the entire feature. Considering that Baymax is built to help people, it makes sense that he would help Hiro in need. Even when Hiro wants him to fight back, deep down inside Baymax knows that murder will never bring Hiro's former sibling back. It truly is touching to see the only remains of Tadashi left simply want to make Hiro move on from a horrible tragedy, as I'm sure anybody dealing with the loss of somebody could relate. Not to mention, Baymax is absolutely adorable, from his squishy design, to his subtle robot movements, to even his caring charm that would make one wish to be his patient.So in conclusion, while I don't think Big Hero 6 is quite as good as most people have made it out to be, I still deem it an entertaining and at times emotional superhero movie that's fun for the whole family. Even with a predictable plot and some two dimensional characters, there's enough fun action, humor, heart and eye popping animation that make it worth a view. Since Disney bought Marvel in 2012, people have been wondering if this film will get an installment in the MCU...well, here's their chance to do so. With a potential TV series soon to have more episodes (it's just being delayed, it hasn't been cancelled) and a rumored sequel, there's always potential for further development of this world and its characters in the future.
The best animated movie I've seen this year, and the best super hero movie I've seen this year also. Inventive storytelling, fun characters and a ton of creativity. It's a bit too formulaic and action-y at the end, but that's forgivable. A fun ride.
I'd heard about Big Hero 6 from a Marvel encyclopedia and wondered how that would translate into a movie. Some things I remember from the original oddball comic while others were less predictable. But the cast here is the main show stealer. Different heroes with their respective differences. And they all band together to fight a common threat just like the Avengers and the Guardians of the Galaxy. That's got to be a winner. And this was one of the movies that I got to see with a friend after we had a hiatus for a few years. It was one of the best signs of our relationship's comeback. And now we're back together. I couldn't be happier.
Back to the pond for Pixar, where we find things largely unchanged from the end of 2003's Finding Nemo. As the continually-forgetful blue tang Dory has a sudden enduring flash of her childhood, a rush of recall, she gathers the clownfish for one more globe-spanning adventure. The setup is a little soft, lingering too long in the shadow of the first film, but eventually we break free of that sentiment and forge a new (if similar) identity for the sequel. The closed-in landscape of an aquatic themed zoo/amusement park feels a bit claustrophobic at first glance, but as hijinx ensue and we learn more of Dory's early years, it all fleshes out nicely. No shortage of colorful new characters there, literally and figuratively, not the least of which is Ed O'Neill's escape artist 'septipus' (having lost a tentacle in the touch tank), who treads dangerously close to becoming a deus ex machina with his versatility. O'Neill brings his usual disgruntled pessimism to the role, though, and some genuinely clever sight gags using the creature's natural assets go a long way to smoothing that over. He's overly convenient, but we're always glad to see him again. Witty and fast-paced, with a good mix of gags for the adults and their kids, plus a potent dose of the studio's famed poignancy. I laughed, I misted up, but I never quite fooled myself into thinking it was superior to the first.
This is a really good sequel. Taking characters from the first one and putting new ones in there as well, it never gets boring or seems to repetitive. And you don't even have to be Dory, I mean forgetful, for this to work for you. Yes it does make sense to watch the first one (Finding Nemo) then, although I reckon you could watch it and enjoy it as a standalone too.The characters and their traits are strong and there are a lot of side jokes built in to this too. Humans are being treated like extras and we wouldn't have the time to deal with them anyway. That is apart from one major voice - but it's being highlighted too as if one of the writers or Ellen herself might have a crush there. But you can't blame them for that. On the contrary you can congratulate everyone involved for a really good movie
I may be one of the few people out there that doesn't love Finding Nemo, it was ok but it didn't really do anything for me. So, going into Finding Dory I had no real expectations.First and foremost, it is GORGEOUS. The colors are striking, the blue tones of the water are realistic at times mesmerizing and the movements of the various creatures are realistic and fluid.Most importantly though is the story. Dory's journey is one of self discovery, of living with a disability and all of the hurdles that creates in your life. It's about the way it makes others look at you and how she overcomes that. Not with some miracle cure that instantly solves everything or erases the issue altogether in the end, but with honest to goodness character growth.As an aside, I had avoided seeing this one until I had finally seen Finding Nemo and while I would recommend seeing Nemo, Finding Dory does stand alone as it's own film.
... rather than using a story to demonstrate dazzling CGI. This film was just as good as its predecessor, Finding Nemo. In this film (which takes place one year after 'Nemo'), Dory, who suffers from short term memory loss, makes it a mission to find her parents. She helped Marlon find Nemo in the first film and now she wants help locating her parents. She became separated from them when she was young and until now, has relied on others to help her find her way. She also gets by with her unique brand of impulsiveness and quick action. Throughout the film, Dory uses other 'people's' (fishes'?) words and objects to trigger memories that assist her in finding her way. It was very clever how Pixar incorporated these triggers to help move the story along and flesh out Dory's background. I also liked how they treated short term memory loss with sensitivity and did not make it a joke. The marine center that Dory & co. end up at is based on the excellent Monterrey Bay Aquarium. The funniest new character added to the Nemo franchise is Hank the octopus (except he only has seven legs as Dory points out and refers to him as a 'septapus.'). Hank is cynical, but you know he's a softy deep inside. He can also camouflage himself into his settings which is quite comical. There are other funny characters like Becky the buzzard and Gerald the seal with a uni-brow.It seems that Pixar thrives on adding emotional scenes to their films that pull at their audience's heartstrings. Finding Dory is no exception. There is a very dramatic scene near the end of the film where Dory is separated from her party and is lost in an unfamiliar, dark ocean, alone. She has to rely on herself to figure out how to find her way out and find her friends. This was a very heart wrenching scene. I won't lie, it made me tear up and I could hear other people sniffling in the theater. Another emotional scene is the beginning of the film showing a baby Dory with her parents. It's not as sad though as the beginning of Up, though.I'd recommend this one.
I may be one of the few people out there that doesn't love Finding Nemo, it was ok but it didn't really do anything for me. So, going into Finding Dory I had no real expectations.First and foremost, it is GORGEOUS. The colors are striking, the blue tones of the water are realistic at times mesmerizing and the movements of the various creatures are realistic and fluid.Most importantly though is the story. Dory's journey is one of self discovery, of living with a disability and all of the hurdles that creates in your life. It's about the way it makes others look at you and how she overcomes that. Not with some miracle cure that instantly solves everything or erases the issue altogether in the end, but with honest to goodness character growth.As an aside, I had avoided seeing this one until I had finally seen Finding Nemo and while I would recommend seeing Nemo, Finding Dory does stand alone as it's own film.
I have to admit that I was among many who rolled their eyes when a sequel to Finding Nemo was announced. I really didn't think there was anything else that could be done with that story. WRONG! It was honestly a million times better than I ever could have expected. I definitely loved it more than the original Finding Nemo. Dory was a fan favorite in the original film and the sequel delivers more of Ellen's whimsical portrayal of the forgetful little fish.I am a sucker for backstory (main reason I love the Star Wars prequels) and I absolutely loved the direction they took this film in. Fun for the whole family. Laughs, lessons, tons of heart. Who could ask for more? The voice acting cast was tremendous, particularly Ellen, of course. They really know how to pull you into this undersea world. I really wouldn't have changed anything about it. A truly delightful movie.
I've never been into animation and my comments probably reflect it. Not for any silly quibbles about real cinema versus not, kiddie versus adult; it's simply that the real world that threads itself around us is too marvelous and fantastical, too full of myriad possible worlds to envision, to forego the opportunity. Okay, but this leaves me free to observe these few things here.It really has taken a quantum leap the last decade in trying to replicate our world after that business with dead eyes was over. Is there anything more extraordinary than texture and light falling a certain way? An audience of Disney's time would have been baffled by what kind of reality this film shows.The most fantastical quality of reality is that I can open the door and go wherever. The thinking mind will hold me back nine times out of ten, but the fact that our lives play out against the possibility is behind any life worth being lived. Spontaneity. It lies at the bottom of all the other structures we observe around us and at the bottom of almost every great film I know of.Pixar's main structure in building world - and what sets them apart from previous studios - is finding a small corner of our own world to animate, say toys in the attic, we can then have the delight of secret lives right under our feet. The more ordinary and familiar this corner is, the more often we can imagine passing through it, the better. It's the difference between Toy Story and Cars. It lets them filter in the following way; the larger surrounding human world retains its quality of callous indifference as we think of it ourselves, our gaze is directed to the magical world-within where fragile beings have to struggle with predicaments like ours. The primary thing to note in tandem with this is how the rest has been engineered around spontaneous expression. Pixar are something of a master in how things flow, how walls can be moved around to facilitate experience. It's all about turbulent motion that zig zags over barriers; through ocean streams, a bird flying us overhead, through tubes inside the marine park, hijacking a truck. Things magically work out, even when our heroes don't land in the right place, they do.And you'll see this in the story about a narrator who continuously forgets, has no plan about how she's going to accomplish what she wants other than the urge to find her parents, but makes her way by rubbing against limits of where she finds herself, spontaneously opening ways.
What can I say? Maybe I'm just becoming a curmudgeon but I just don't find the fact that Dory lost her parents as a child and has been looking for them ever since very (read: at all) interesting. The movie opens with Dory as a small child, who features in several flashbacks thereafter. The cuteness factor of young Dory has been dialed up to 11 in a rather obvious attempt to invest the audience in Dory's plight that much more. But, to me, it just came off as saccharine.The movie wasn't very plausible either. Yes, I am fully aware this is a cartoon aimed at kids. But we're expected to believe Dory, having severe (and entirely plot-driven) memory loss somehow found her way as a small child from California all the way to Australia all by herself.Anyway, if I'd been able to find the basic plot interesting, I might have forgiven the movie's list of other other implausibilities and errors but, as it is, they just come off as irritating, and in service of a dull story. Some example:An octopus (actually, a 'septapus', as it's missing a tentacle; more on that later) that can not only stay out of water indefinitely and disguise itself as anything, but can also learn to drive a car within seconds and drive it blind with only Dory to guide him.A fish tank in the kiddie section of an aquarium, where the kids are allowed to grab the creatures within the tank. This, incidentally, is where the octopus lost a tentacle because a kid pulled it off. And the aquarium was totally okay with this and let the kids go on grabbing fish. GTFOOH Pixar.The octopus finds himself back in the tank where kids can freely grab them. Conveniently, he forgets he can essentially become invisible, to force tension into the plotThe octopus steers a stroller past milling throngs of people, none of whom think it very remarkable.Whale sharks are not whales and do not eat fish. This is the most egregious, or at least most irritating, error committed by this film. Did Pixar not do research or did they just not care? Honestly, I find this error shocking coming from Pixar.Several fish-eating animals are seen throughout this movie that are only to happy to forget their dietary requirements: sea lions, loons, otters, it doesn't matter. The otters are even willing to risk their lives for this fish they don't know to help her do something about which they have no way of knowing anything. At least in the fIrst movie, there was some explanation given as to why pelicans and sharks would not eat fish. Here, it's just whatever serves the plot. It just feels lazy and cheap.I have a feeling echolocation doesn't work anything like it's portrayed here, but I won't make too much of it. But, wow, did that 'whale speak' get REALLY annoying REALLY fast.I have usually considered Pixar to feature strong characters, but after THE GOOD DINOSAUR and this movie, I'm disappointed in how dull and/or annoying the characters are. Dory was fine as a supporting player (and in a better movie) but as the star, she's simply insufferable. Overall, I have always considered Pixar as synonymous with quality. But no longer. It will no longer be a given that a Pixar movie is going to be a winner.
Anticipated for this movie long time ago with high hope since I love Finding Nemo but this is such a huge disappointment. The 'short-term memory (remember-y here and there) lost' joke is getting old and at some point become annoying. Not until half way through the movie I got bored and wondered when the movie end. Couldn't laugh or at least chuckle at jokes thrown in the movie and the story seems to be put in a rush. Marlin and Nemo were also featured all the way in the movie and they were just fine. The dynamic between three of them were still there too however the adventures portrayed didn't really exciting and the thrill of the journey helping Dory on her quest finding her parents couldn't evoke emotions at all. I remembered myself laughed a lot watching Finding Nemo and at some point in tears too but not on this one. It's certainly not easy to be on par with a great movie with great visual effects and story line like Finding Nemo in the first place but at least this should have come close to it which sadly that is not the case. Definitely disappointed
Finding Dory wins just one miserable star, for one reason: The animation throughout is astonishingly realistic.However, almost everything else about the film is a train wreck of ocean-sized proportions. Take no notice of the reviews of the critics, who seem to be doing everything to try and defend this horribly misguided mess.But how is it a mess? Here's why. The whole film just fails to give you a reason to want to sit through all of it again. It doesn't feel like a proper story, instead more like a series of antics and ideas thrown into an overflowing, ugly mix. It's chaotic, too long and so stupid at times that it has to be seen to be believed. This is easily one of Pixar's worst.Finding Dory's most egregious flaw as its shockingly incompetent pacing. The film is frantic, mindless and over-concerned with shoving in jokes and sight gags. Scenes are so rushed and so needlessly silly that they just aren't believable. Introduced characters get little development and are just forgettable. Will anyone really remember or care about Hank the octopus, Destiny the whale shark or those argumentative sea-lions in the future?The film's strict adherence to sequel clichés also seriously crosses the line. Returning plot elements, rehashed scenarios, character cameos and overblown action scenes are all here and are never justified. In fact, by the end of it, the entire film hasn't even justified its existence. Furthermore, the characters suffer so much bad luck that it eventually turns into 'Planes, Trains and Automobiles' with fish. Everything starts going wrong. Detours are constantly taken. Death is cheated over and over. And yet, the characters constantly escape via methods so contrived and convenient that it's impossible to take seriously. Admittedly, it's kind of creative in places, but it's also as predictable as you can imagine.The climax, however, is where the film finally crashes into the ground. It's astoundingly awful. Picture this - an octopus driving a lorry extremely poorly and not crashing into any oncoming cars. A large group of otters hugging each other in the middle of the road in order to stop these cars. And finally, the same lorry being driven over a hill and into the sea. This is the climax simplified - except that it's way, way worse than that. It can't even describe how bad it is. It's a horribly written climax and is jaw-droppingly nonsensical.Why stop there? The film fails in so many other ways that you can play bingo with its flaws. There are way too many flashbacks to Dory's cutesy childhood. 'Emotional' scenes are dull and stretched thin. Marlin and Nemo are in it, but mean little to the plot. A scene where a bunch of kids are touching some sea life, who are shown feeling the constant pain, is not at all funny but uncomfortable. Several scenes, like one with a talking clam, just feel shoved in for no reason. Many jokes fall flat. The dialogue is stale and charmless. I could go on and on.The whole thing is an embarrassing atrocity. As much as I'd love to give more stars to this movie, I feel it deserves just one. Because the bad aspects of this movie are so bad, they essentially undo the good ones. Yes, it's well-animated. Yes, it has some very minor charming parts. Yes, it can be creative at times. But everything else about the film is brainless to a damning extreme. Finding Nemo worked because it was melancholic, tear-jerking and uplifting. It resonated with everyone. Its sequel has almost none of what made the original a masterpiece.
I watched this movie with very high hopes. I was a kid when Finding Nemo came out and it defined kids movies at the time. Finding Dory was significantly less impressive. The good: The move was very cute and the characters were fun. Ed O'Neill as a cranky octopus was especially nice. The bad: The whole movie feels as if Pixar was pressed to come out with a solid movie and just threw this one together really fast. It felt very rushed and therefore the story line, which had a little potential, was hard to really get into and appreciate. 3/4 of the way through, though it felt rushed, the movie became very redundant and predictable. I was pretty over it personally and could have stopped the movie then and been a happy camper. One of Pixar's lazier films and it's disappointing considering the astounding work they have done before it. If you want to enjoy a movie like this, just watch Finding Nemo instead. If you want to see the sequel to they aforementioned and terrific film, your imagination of how the movie should play out is probably better than the real thing.
Movies today are very commercial, we all know this. I've been going to animated type films with my granddaughter for many years and God bless, she always says she loves them all.And so she did with Finding Dory but I was disgusted the entire movie.First, we did see it in 3D, something I seldom do because I don't see the benefit of the extra money. But in the case of THIS movie, it is the one good thing I could say about it. This movie, under the sea, the marine life, the beautiful color, was gorgeous in 3D.Now let's discuss the very, very stupid plot of this movie.We begin by asserting that we do understand that giving animals human like traits is very common and I don't have a problem with this. It's part of the joy of watching, adds to the understanding, gives a depth to the plot.But come on people, a fish with a short term memory problem? That's a rare thing even in humans for goodness sake, much less a fish with a brain smaller than a pea.It's just too much to buy into is my complaint, that a fish manages to go through life forgetting everything is just learned because of this brain anomaly.And the plot is very far-fetched, with fish hijacking trucks and flying with birds and translating fish water echoes into visual sights.Seems Dory, the star of the movie and one of the fish who saved Elmo, an animate film from many years ago that was much more believable, lost her parents and the story is about Dory's determination to find them.And Dory, come on, she's the only fish in the movie with buck teeth and why is this? Because Ellen DeGeneres, the voice of Dory, has teeth exactly like the cartoon fish and this was just so obvious. I like Ellen DeGeneres and consider she was a perfect voice for Dory, but DeGeneres has never met a promotional opportunity that she'd let pass by. Including having a fish with her voice look like her.The story has a bunch of fish helping Dory find her parents and we've got seashell trails and forgetful Dory and a silly plot that looked as if a bunch of people threw a bunch of idea confetti on the table and an absurd story was somehow concocted.Of course we have Dory stuff at McDonald's and Pixar, AKA Disney, will make money on this fluff thrown together with little care save for the merchandise and revenue.Come on producers and directors out there! You got to have a little pride when crafting an animated movie. The color and 3D of 'Finding Dory' ain't going to cut it.This movie is best for someone five years old or less, someone who won't laugh at the silly concept of a forgetful fish.
*May Contain Spoilers* This movie is about dory losing her parents when she was a little baby fish. Dory lost her parents due to suffering from short term memory loss. Now dory is older she begins to have flash backs of her parents and where she came from because she has never has known her real family. Some thoughts in her mind however make her realise she wants to find them. So dory decides to start on a sea adventure to try and find them with the help of her best friends marlin and Nemo the clown fish. Along the way dory has help from many other sea creatures in helping in trying to help find her parents. It is an exciting watching all the different situations that dory has to go through, whilst suffering from her short term memory loss, its funny yet sad and a little bit scary what happens to dory. Dory in the end actually remembers more than she actually knew. In the end dory finds here mum and dad because she remembered where she came from. This was a great adventure movie full of colourful sea creatures and a great ending for dory.
I was super disappointed in this film, given that it was rated 4.5 stars. It had way too much of Dory. I wish I had a nickel for every time she mentioned she has memory problems; I'd be stinking rich. Trust me, the bad memory shtick gets very old after a short time.If you love Dory, yes you will like the movie. But if Dory all the time is a bit much for you, you will get bored by this fast. The new whale characters just were not very interesting either. The 2 grand-kids liked Finding Dory OK, but I doubt if they would want to see it again. This is not the first time I've been disappointed in a highly-rated kids film, 5 stars just doesn't mean the quality it did in the past.
Okay - Blackfish apparently caused a rewrite of the movies ending, presumably the species of the character Destiny. Okay... Pretty sure the writers had enough time to do some research and figure out that a whale-shark is not in fact a whale, and doesn't eat fish... Why not just feed the fish into the beluga's tank? Why not have the beluga 'speak whale' instead? We get it, it's a cartoon - but willful suspension of disbelief is lost when my 3 year old is calling out this sort of stuff (granted, he's been fortunate enough to go to the aquarium in Atlanta) There is no magic in Dory - in fact, it's greatest problem may be that there's too much Dory. In the first she acted as a great foil to Marlin - here... well... There's no foil for Dory.Watch it again - as stated earlier, got a three year old so it might happen. Pay to watch it again? No. Do it by choice? No. Allow my kid to watch it again? Sure, there's worse, but then again, there's better too: frankly, 'A Turtle's Tale 2' was better, with a fresher recycled soundtrack even with a remarkably similar plot line.Currently Rotten Tomatoes is giving it a 'certified fresh' rating - I'm left wondering if there is an octopus writing their critical reviews.
I have always liked watching children's film, animated or live- action since most of the time they are fun or well-written or both. I have no problems suspending disbelief when it comes to movies since I know that cinema is a different art form and it can be just pure entertainment and escapist fun (that has to use some unbelievable action sequences or scenes). A good film, for me, does not need to please the critics all the time or be too realistic and philosophical. I can enjoy almost all movies as long they are not pretentious and just want to tell a good story, whether in a profound way or in an entertaining way.However, I had to suspend my disbelief too many times while watching Finding Dory and the story is not compelling enough for me. I also find Dory so annoying here though I liked the octopus very much.Maybe I expected too much since I enjoyed Finding Nemo even though I also had to suspend my disbelief when watching it, but the suspension of disbelief did not make me question the plot too much. I also thought that Finding Dory would be a good sequel since I enjoyed the sequels of famous animated films like Toy Story 2, Ice Age 2, Kung Fu Panda 2. Well I thought wrong!!!!
For a studio that has a brilliant track record, with incredible movies like Wall-e, Finding Nemo, Toy Story, Cars, and others, Finding Dory is a complete embarrassment. It is, in fact, too bad to be considered with its prequel. There were a few scenes that did touch the heart, but overall it was more of a joke. The original film brought several new ideas that all of us liked, this one doesn't bring anything substantially new. The same Dory which was cute in the first part is too annoying in this one. Sometimes, she is just unbearable. The dialogues are mostly boring. I rarely feel like sleeping while watching a movie, this one did make me fall asleep two times very briefly. I loved the first part and I was so excited with this one too. As the movie started, I tried to make myself believe that it is not bad, but by the interval time, I felt like leaving before finishing it! I will always agree that some scenes were really good, but they were acutely insufficient to save this movie. For me, a movie that had Pixar with its name was automatically considered as a must-watch, but now, you've destroyed your name Pixar.
I don't care whether critics say it is nice or not. It may look great visually, but truth be told, there isn't much more to it than that. The lines get too repetitive, too redundant. The plot is too thin, and the characters pretty annoying. The forgetfulness that was cute in finding Nemo got to a point where it is plainly dumb and irritating here. The trick gets old, it loses its value. It is just like 'minions'. The small yellow guys were cute in despicable me, but they should not have gotten their own movies. Same here. Dory is uninteresting, and while some scenes make people feel with her, i spent most of the movie wondering when it was going to end. It is one of Pixar's worst movies.
This had to be one of the most boring movies I have ever seen. Both my wife and I fell asleep. There was almost no humor. It was just a ridiculous 'adventure' (if you could call it that), and it seemed to go on and on. If you are going to make an animated movie, there should be some humor in it for the adults. After all, adults are the ones PAYING for the movie.My nap was the best part of the movie. While I was awake, I had to suffer though the annoying voice of Ellen DeGeneres. The Dory character was okay in the first movie as a secondary character, but they should have never made a movie around this obnoxious character.The only good think I can say is that my 6 year old thought it was okay.
Well it's been thirteen years but we finally have the movie that no one asked for, 'Finding Dory'. Following the huge success of 'Finding Nemo' it's hard to imagine that this film wasn't going to happen. Even if we all got down and begged Pixar not to, they still probably would have made this movie. So this time around, Dory is our main character. Yes, Pixar has completely made up a story to give to the side character that everyone loved so much. With in the first ten minutes Dory magically remembers that she has a family and goes on the hunt for them. Sound like the first the film? Well it is.It's exactly like the first one. Only the difference is that this one is really stupid. 'Finding Nemo' happened because Nemo was taken away from his father. Him and his father were the only survivors after some fished killed their whole family. So it made sense that Nemos dad would trek across the whole ocean to find him. The problem here is that you don't really care about what is going on at all. The story the film builds around it's characters is absolute nonsense. You mean to tell me that in the entire year that Dory was living with these guys no one bothered to ask her about her family? And that all those phrases that triggered her memory she was hearing for the first time in her life?I don't think so Pixar. As I watched this film it was apparent that this film was farted into existence. The film makers clearly just used this characters handicap to make up a pointless story. I mean they seriously could not think of any better way to tell the story then to just have her flash back like one hundred times?Not only is this incredibly lazy but it made the whole movie feel incredibly convenient. The films story is only taking place because of something that was completely random and ridiculous. Not only that, but they seriously could not have come up with anything better than just rehashing the same story? It's exactly the same story as the first just, the characters are playing slightly different roles.How on earth do the film makers think that one can be invested in this film if the first one was not only the same, but better? The first had real, relatable emotions and experiences going on. It was easy to connect with the characters and sympathize with their voyage. But this film doesn't do any of that. It just expects you to be blinded by nostalgia and love everything that is happening simply because you remember those characters.Which it does nothing new with either. There was really only one new character in the whole film that had any kind of personality. Aside from that every new thing we are introduced to is only just as a plot device. Other than that, their main purpose was to be comedy relief. Which was mainly pointed at making fun of other handicapped animals. If this film isn't subtly telling your children that you should make fun of handicapped people I don't know what is.While I certainly did not enjoy this film it isn't without its few saving graces. For starters, the voice acting is once again great. Ellen as Dory is closest thing to perfect casting I have seen. Her and the other actors involved really seemed to commit to their performances. And while the story as a whole isn't good there are a couple of great scenes in there. The scene in the kid zone is particular great. Seeing how these fish view these kids poking them and grabbing them is pretty ingenious. As a whole it is also very well paced. There was very few dull moments here. That being said, this film should not have happened. Not only is it a symbol of how far Pixar has fallen but how much they actually care about their audience. No longer do they desire to make quality pictures, no, it's all about the money now. This is very apparent thanks to how little thought was put into this movie. If you have kids, they might enjoy it. But if not, this one really is not worth your time.
i used to be a be pixar fan, and loved classic films like Nemo and Monster. However, since Steve Jobs sold Pixar to Disney, the creativity and imagination have died with the trade. Dory is no exception, feels like a recycled Nemo but with much worse plot, worse cgi, worse pretty much everything. It is pretty hard to believe, 15 years since the original Nemo, the quality of the animation actually has become worse.The only bright spot of the movie, was the 5 minute mini movie Piper. I should pixar makes a feature length movie for that.Wall-E was the last good pixar films. all junks after that. I wish jobs has never sold pixar to Disney.I wonder what junk will pixar dish out next year... sigh...
Everyone's favourite forgetful fish, Dory (Ellen DeGeneres), is back on the big screen a whopping 13 years after joining Marlin (Albert Brooks) on a quest to find his missing clownfish son. This time, however, Dory takes centre stage. Shifting the focus from Nemo to Dory for this belated follow-up is a no-brainer; it allows Pixar to concoct a new ocean-spanning adventure without feeling too repetitive, whilst cleverly bringing the broader plot full-circle by having the child now looking for the parents. Even with the huge gap between movies, there are still obstacles to be circumvented in order to avoid sequelitis. Most of these are handled with the intelligence and elegance we have come to expect from Pixar, though some hurdles prove to be too big. The story goes to very different places from both a narrative and location perspective, but the messages behind the film – don't judge a book by its cover, spontaneity can be liberating, you can do anything if you try hard enough, etc – are all too familiar. With glorious cutting-edge animation, a string of creative sequences and a barrel-full of laughs, there won't be a single audience member, regardless of age, that'll be bored; yet there's also a lack of truly memorable moments that stop this from being a classic like its predecessor. It goes without saying that Dory is the star of the show, although the range of hilarious supporting characters is impressive. Ed O'Neill's cantankerous, camouflaging octopus Hank and Ty Burrell's self-doubting beluga whale Bailey shine brightest. It might not be in the top echelon of Pixar outings, but Finding Dory is a charming, amusing and thoughtful family flick worth visiting the cinema for.
I am still a kid at heart and never miss out on a Disney or Pixar film, ever. But this one establishes two problems for children who have been adopted or are in foster care. First - Dory is, as we all know, forgetful, and that is why she was separated from her parents, thus - it is HER FAULT. Second - Dory has loving, friendly parents who are emotionally and mentally stable and have been actively looking for her for years, therefor perpetuating most adopted / fostered children's fantasies regarding their birth parents, but is most often NOT the case. This is grossly unfair to any child not anticipating this theme in the film, did Pixar forget how literal children are? So be thoughtful and take the time to see this insensitive film before taking your children. Even birth children need to have a talk with their parents about NOT making adoptive friends / classmates feel that this could be the outcome if they are adopted. Our adopted daughter years for a relationship with her birth mother, and we are actively looking for her and praying for a good end result. Many times birth parents want nothing to do with their birth children. Again, Pixar really dropped the ball on this one, for all the screaming this industry does to be sensitive to most groups of people, I guess they didn't bother to give a second thought to this particular group.
Anticipated for this movie long time ago with high hope since I love Finding Nemo but this is such a huge disappointment. The 'short-term memory (remember-y here and there) lost' joke is getting old and at some point become annoying. Not until half way through the movie I got bored and wondered when the movie end. Couldn't laugh or at least chuckle at jokes thrown in the movie and the story seems to be put in a rush. Marlin and Nemo were also featured all the way in the movie and they were just fine. The dynamic between three of them were still there too however the adventures portrayed didn't really exciting and the thrill of the journey helping Dory on her quest finding her parents couldn't evoke emotions at all. I remembered myself laughed a lot watching Finding Nemo and at some point in tears too but not on this one. It's certainly not easy to be on par with a great movie with great visual effects and story line like Finding Nemo in the first place but at least this should have come close to it which sadly that is not the case. Definitely disappointed
Sorry but this just didn't work.. the story line was tired to say the least. Whilst there were a few subtle pastiches to keep parents interested there weren't enough. and even my four year old got down from their seat and came over to ask me 'Is it finishing soon ? I'm bored.' My nine year old managed to keep awake throughout which is his usual way of showing his view on a film so maybe it's not all bad. But with the current cost of Cinema (movie house) tickets (£30 $40) in London I did feel somewhat disappointed. This was a Disney Pixar production was we had our anticipation set by their previous material, but this was a low point on their output. From Finding Nemo a sequel was obviously going to make an appearance. This admittedly didn't give the writers much scope for a story. But they needed to have included more comical asides within the main story and increased the pace of the second quarter.
I'll come out and admit up front that 'Finding Nemo' is not one of my favourite Pixar movies. When it was released I found it quite easily the least funny Pixar movie to date and, having followed 'Monsters Inc.', I worried that Pixar were shifting their focus to the kids in the audience without delivering so many of the clever references and gags that are the core of their appeal to adults. Happily 'The Incredibles' followed the subsequent year, still the best movie the studio has produced.Critical reception for 'Finding Dory' convinced me to give it a go, but I wish I had listened to my instincts to avoid this one. Much like its predecessor, the film is generally lacking in humour and barely raised a chuckle from me throughout. Not much thought seems to have gone into making clever gags, exemplified by the oft-mentioned use of Sigourney Weaver as voice talent. It's like someone at Pixar said 'Hey, wasn't it funny when we had Sigourney Weaver as the voice of the ship's computer in 'WALL-E'? Well, yes, it was - because that was a clever reference to the film 'Alien'. Here, no such reference exists, so it's just unfunny name-dropping.The lack of humour compounds upon a really weak story line that is soul-drainingly repetitive. It is no spoiler to say that the vast majority of this movie consists of the three main characters being split up on their way somewhere, managing to get back together again and then immediately being split up again. It happened over and over again until I was internally screaming at the film to come to a merciful end. The film's emotional core is a simple rehash of the original and never rises above the bargain-basement 'Family is good' and 'You can do it if you try' tropes of a million other kids films. It's a far cry from the subtlety exhibited by last year's 'Inside Out'.Possibly most damning of all is the fact that this movie doesn't even push the visual boundaries of the original. Considering that it's been 13 years I was expecting to be wowed by some great underwater visuals, but this film doesn't look any better than its predecessor. Disappointing to say the least.Overall this is definitely one to skip unless its to keep young children occupied for 90 minutes. Given that next year we have an unwanted 3rd 'Cars' movie, we'll have to hope that original IP 'Coco' can demonstrate the qualities that we've come to expect from Pixar - they're in short supply here.
I am a very big Pixar fan. I grew up watching all the Pixar classics when I was a kid. Toy Story, The Incredibles, Wall-E, and Finding Nemo are some examples of my favorite Pixar movies of all time. When the Finding Dory teaser played before The Force Awakens, that effing piano at the beginning gave me goosebumps. The highly anticipated sequel to our favorite classic is here! I was very excited as I entered the theater. I wasn't surprised that 40% of the theater was occupied by children (although the most surprising thing here is that elders were dominant). It was supposed to be a great day to spend Father's Day last month. But as I exit the theater, I don't know exactly what was wrong with me. I felt kind of underwhelmed and disappointed at the same time. Is this the most disappointing Pixar film yet?First, I'll list the only good stuff in the movie.1. Voice acting. The old cast in this sequel still have the same energy they had back in 2003. The new cast such as Idris Elba, Diane Lane, Eugene Levy, and Ed O'Neill shined in their roles. 2. Humor. Although the humor is aimed at kids, there were also jokes made to fly over their heads. Sigourney Weaver's scene and Dory considering her as her friend as an example. It's a remarkable scene.Now here are all the flaws in the film:1. Story. Not only did I notice the storyline is rushed, but even others did. Are they low on budget? I don't know.2. Plot. This is a problem most people have with the film. The plot is basically a rehash of the first Finding Nemo! I didn't have any expectation of wishing for something original since this is the first time Pixar rehashed a classic. Add some exaggerating and unbelievable moments in the film.3. Lack of heart. Another big problem with the film is that it lacked heart. When I heard that there are no teary eyed moments, my excitement lowered a bit. However, when my friends said they did cry, I went to the theater also expecting to cry. But there wasn't any time for teary eyed moments. Take Inside Out, Toy Story 3, Up, and Finding Nemo as examples. They broke our hearts so much that you can't resist crying. The story is 'so human'. In Finding Dory, they were replaced with laughs instead. 4. The Tank Gang's appearance. Why were they at the after end credits scene? They could've been in the actual movie instead of letting only a small amount of people getting to see them again. Really disappointing.5. Exaggerating moments. The new character named Hank was a really likable character, until he was ruined in the third act. He actually drives a truck on the road! Would you also like to see fishes hijack a truck? What about a whale shark escaping from its tank? You'll find those here. What a move, Pixar.6. Music. Thomas Newman is a great movie composer. But he's not so great here. His music sounds so uninspired and he didn't bring the original Finding Nemo theme (excluding one scene). Dory's theme is too similar to the theme of Finding Nemo. And at times, his music gave me a Dreamworks feel.7. Theme song. I literally hated Unforgettable. It sounds more of a James Bond theme (kinda sounds like Writing's on the Wall from SPECTRE) than a Finding Dory theme song. Sia wasn't even a good choice to sing the theme song. Is Hollywood hiring famous singers to sing theme songs for every single movie? The terrible Ghostbusters remake has Fall Out Boy performing the theme. Bad idea. What's next? Justin Bieber singing a new theme for Rogue One?8. Children are treated like devils. This isn't really an issue in Toy Story 3, but they did it again here. It's like saying Pixar thinks children are devils.As you can see, I am very disappointed with Finding Dory. I was ready to give this a 10, but after seeing the movie, I am very disappointed. This is supposed to be a worthy sequel, but it isn't. Instead, we were given another mediocre sequel from Pixar (in my ratings Cars 2 is rated higher than this because at least the characters are not exaggerating and we had a really good theme, but it's still a disappointing Pixar movie). It's not as good as Finding Nemo either. This won't be in my Pixar collection. This is the second Pixar movie not to be present there. I refuse to believe this exists. Hopefully The Incredibles 2 won't be as mediocre as this.4/10.
I love Finding Nemo so for me, this movie was a disappointment. The plot was weak and it seemed like they couldn't think of a proper way to end it. The graphics wasn't as good as last time and Dory seemed to have lost her charm. They played on her forgetting to bring forced humour. In Finding Nemo the characters were all lovable and unique but in this one they were all similar and uninteresting. After all the buildup of Dory trying to find her family, when she finally did it wasn't powerful enough. I had to roll my eyes when Dory was driving the truck with the octopus because it was so cliché. The only scenes that were good were Dory's memories of when she was a baby, she was adorable! Overall, a good movie but nowhere near Pixars' normal standards.
One huge problem about Pixar is that they have been releasing too many long awaited sequels (and a prequel) like Toy Story 3 (which was even better than One and Two), Monsters University and recently this one.PLOT: The plot is too similar to Finding Nemo. Firstly, our protagonist (Dory) gets lost, her friends (Marlin and Nemo) go on a long journey to find her, at the aquarium she makes new friends, including an octopus who wants to escape and her old friend a whaleshark, she is briefly reunited with her friends and family, she is rescued and the gang returns home with new friends. The only differences are she gets lost while looking for her lost parents,it takes place in an aquarium in California, the new friends are the octopus, the whaleshark and the orca, and in the climax she is saved from a truck.CHARACTERS: Film makers will never learn that giving the comic relief character his/her own story is not a good idea.HUMOUR:Nearly half the jokes in this film fall flat, like Sigourney Weaver is the host of the aquarium. COME ON PIXAR YOU CAN DO BETTER THAN THAT!!!! In conclusion, Finding Dory robs the audiences worth $1.056 billion worldwide and felt like remake, not a sequel.
Sometimes there are films that are untouchable and I think something like Finding Nemo was one of them. Whilst Dory was a beloved character in the film, I believe it was a stretch having her become the star of her own film in Finding Dory.The other problem with creating spin-off films (or sequels and remakes for that matter), is that you find yourself consistently comparing them to the original. This can be detrimental if the original was close to perfection. I found that the things I loved about Finding Nemo were missing from Finding Dory. One of the great things about the first movie was that the adventure was never-ending. We started with the loss of Nemo and we followed his father Marlon and his sidekick Dory on a quest to find him. Along the way, we met various characters and encountered differing scenarios that kept us on our toes. The gnarly surfer dude sea turtles, the immense field of jellyfish, the creepy creature that lured the two protagonists with a distracting shiny light dangling from the tip of his head and the group of wannabe vegetarian sharks (lead by the intimidating but friendly Bruce). Not to mention what Nemo was going through and the friends and foes he was encountering at a dental surgery in Sydney.Finding Dory didn't really have any of that. Whilst Dory did meet a few quirky friends along the way, I felt like the flow of the film was missing. Either the interactions were brief (like when she met a couple of fish who were trying to help Dory but couldn't figure her out because of her condition), or they were long and laboured (like when she met Hank the octopus and subsequently Bailey and Destiny at the Marine Life Institute). For me, it seemed like Dory was quick to move from point A to point B (from Australia to the United States) but then lingered on point B for a very long time.Visually, as was expected, the film was faultless and despite all of the above, there were still some delightful moments that made you laugh and made you cry. Unfortunately, it wasn't enough to keep me interested and instead of wanting Dory to find herself, I found myself looking at my watch and waiting for the end credits to begin rolling.motherofpopcorn.wordpress.com
The story was beautifully executed, it was well paced, the new characters kept the story fresh and the film was somewhat educational. Perhaps not as emotionally charged as the first, but not many sequels can achieve such a high quality level in terms of depth in all its characters and minor details. Only Pixar can make you feel empathetic towards a fish.
Very nice film and the character of Dory is so beautifully portrayed. A great sequel to Finding Nemo.
Finding Nemo was a movie I dare to say worth watching more than once and I was so exited to see Finding Dory. But as we were watching it the sound of my 7 years old daughter crying confirmed my thoughts . It is not a happy Disney / Pixar movie and not suitable for many kids. My baby girl even through away her Finding Dory toy ! She said :' why would I want it when I even don't like the movie ? ' She was so sad and scared of loosing us. Though the characters were cute specially Ed O'Neill did an amazing job with his character 'Hank' but unfortunately the story line was rush and unorganized . Such sad scenes for a baby Dory was not a wise choice .
As someone who adores Finding Nemo and has waited YEARS for a sequel, I must say I am disappointed. Finding Dory definitely has a sequel feel to it. This didn't feel like a story that is worth a thirteen year wait. There are certainly cute and funny moments, but nothing solid enough to become a favorite. I've seen Finding Nemo so many times, but Dory is one I'll probably never watch again unless it's with my nephew or something. I didn't feel like this was a Pixar movie for all ages; it seemed more appropriate for younger audiences (I'm 24). As much as I hate admitting it, I couldn't wait for it to be over. Near the last quarter or so of the movie it just got redundant and all I could think was, 'Ok, this can be over any time now.' I enjoyed seeing characters from Nemo make appearances, and a couple new characters were charming, but overall it's not enough to make Dory an instant classic like Nemo. Pixar outdid themselves with the animation but you can tell this is a sequel for the sake of a sequel, not because they came up with a great storyline.
Pixar has not had the best track record as of late releasing mediocre films such as 'The Good Dinosaur', 'Brave' and lifeless sequels such as 'Monsters University' and to an extent 'Toy Story 3', so going into this one I did not have high expectations. While somewhat more enjoyable than the previous films mentioned, 'Finding Dory' just does not have much going for it, which is to be expected considering how unnecessary this sequel is. Finding Nemo was a great film on its own and it seems that Pixar is cashing in this time by attempting to 'expand' the side character of Dory, and the result was not great.In the first 10-20 mins Dory is excruciatingly annoying, having all the conversations revolve around her, the short-term memory condition gets painful really fast, especially in the attempt to make brainless, lazy 'jokes'. This just goes to show that Dory's character was never intended to be front and center, but rather as comic relief, and similar to 'Cars 2' with Mater, while it works in the first one it is simply tiring in the sequel. Pixar knew this well, and tried to fix it by having the movie spend wasted time with Marlin and Nemo with little attempt to expand their characters.Although, rather than expanding Dory's character, they just rehash her arc from the first one, and instead give her an uninspired backstory relying purely on Dory being 'cute'. What ensues is another typical, generic Pixar 'adventure', plagued with unnecessary flashbacks that only serve to interrupt the flow of the movie.I will say however that the most enjoyable part of the film were the various humorous parts of the movies such as the Seals and also Octopus, a character that endured more growth throughout the movie than the lead. On the other hand, there were also the film's fair share of brainless jokes, such as the Sigourney Weaver announcement that was repeated so many times that it had a numbing effect, alongside the rehashed jokes from the first one including the whale calling and 'just keep swimming' song that only remind the audience just how far Pixar have fallen.Overall, 'Finding Dory' is by no means awful, it is however an extremely mediocre, average and forgettable film, adding yet another blemish on what used to be Pixar's quality track record. The future for the studio is not looking bright with 3 out of the 4 movies in production being more sequels, but let's hope that they have the capacity to try something different or at least slightly straying from the norm.
I thought that this movie would be boring since I got older and it's a kid's movie. I was very surprised and I found it better than finding Nemo. I could relate so much to Dory, I'm always forgetting things, I'm always lost and I cried so many times in this movie because I could relate. She is just like me and when other fishes got mad at her, I felt the same way she did. It was a very deep and emotional movie, I absolutely loved it (even though I don't remember everything). If you are constantly lost in your own world and have a fish memory, I guarantee that you will cry watching the movie.
Adventure in Fantasyland sums this up. It's cute, it's cuddly, it's silly. It's a cartoon. It's Disney.So, stay on the surface if you want to enjoy this movie but don't dive deeper into it b/c it's unpleasant.Every movie has a villain/difficulty for the protagonist to overcome. Dory's short term memory loss is the 'villain'. It separates her from her loving parents and plagues her throughout the movie with a gnawing sense that she's not where she's suppose to be. It causes her to trust strangers, some who are natural predators - one who does not have her best interest but eventually gives into her plight. The message: Even predators will help you if your persistently cute and innocent. Not a good message in reality.Her memory loss leads her into dangerous situations as she is physically lost. But the main, clear message is 'Just bumble along in life, you won't get hurt, and everyone is there to help you. Life is a happy adventure.' The reality is she would have been victimized or killed each step of the way. Inaccuracies abound. Salt water fish surviving in fresh water. Sea Urchins in a touch and play tank - ouch. Shark whale called a whale. A fish has the capability to read English but can't remember moment to moment - that's just stupid. More and more movies are coming out that are too much like video games. Action without consequences. Story lines abandoning reality - even physics and the natural laws - promoting moralities based upon dangerous falsehoods. First thing you learn in middle school English is 'What is the moral of the story?' What IS the moral of this story? It's not just wrong, it's dangerous.So, if you really want to enjoy this movie just be like Dory! Just bumble along for the ride and don't think much. La-la-la. Weeeee.
This is probably the worst Pixar movie. My girlfriend and I fell asleep. The initial idea was good. But it wasn't funny at all! The ending was stupid.We didn't see it 3D, but even so, still could not have gave it more than 3 stars.I hope they wont't make it 'Finding Marlin' or something since this was a huge disappointment after such a long time.I see here that many people are saying that this was better than Finding Nemo! Trust me, save your money for something else.
13 years (yes, it's been that long) since 'Finding Nemo' the talented folks at Pixar again decide to break their 'no sequel' rule and bring us 'Finding Dory'.'Cars 2' and 'Monsters University' had their moments but weren't great, so I was going into this film with low expectations.However, despite there being quite a few similarities between the plots of both films 'Finding Dory' is entertaining enough, with lots of charm and humour.I did find it a bit repetitive at times though. We lost Dory, we find Dory, then something else happens to Dory. It almost seemed as though they were padding the story out.Is 'Finding Dory' set to be a classic? No. Could you just watch 'Finding Nemo' and forget this sequel was made? Yes. But for a better than average film then this is a good one to watch.
Took my two children ages 5 and 9 to watch. The opening Pixar Piper was awesome!They can really convey a story with no dialog and be totally entertaining. However, Dory with all the dialog just fell flat. I think many would agree that there are many movies that don't need a sequel, no matter how much money they made with the first.Some movies, like Nemo, already complete an original story and tie up the ends nicely. Pixar really hit the underwater CGI at 100% with Nemo. I believe that, combined with lovable characters, good main plot, and very cleaver idea interactions (sharks, crabs, gulls, dentist office and aquarium scenes, all the mini-struggles along the way, and the development of the character arcs like Marlin/Nemo, Marlin/Dory, etc) made Nemo an innovative cartoon movie for all ages, hence the immense success. Sure, writers can contrive any number of plot lines into a sequel, but form without substance renders a somewhat lackluster sequel=Dory. The movie is highly colorful and continues Pixars excellent water CGI but can't top what was already done to perfection in Nemo. The story re-acquaints the old characters with some as-expected new characters, with a brief turtle Crush cameo. The sea lions were cute, the octopus made for a few laughs, but the whole 'I can't remember..' Dory character was so overused that it overshadowed the movie with a somber melodrama. I could hear many kids groaning in the theater as the movie dragged on, my two barely stayed awake. The Dory character in Nemo had a purpose, was used skillfully and moved the movie along with some slapstick lines by DeGeneres almost like Robin Williams' Aladdin. But to make that a core plot and centerpiece is not enough to carry a movie. I guess it makes sense to Hollywood to take a move like Nemo, that cost $94mil and grossed probably a billion with marketing and toys, is enough reason to stretch for a sequel. Did it work for Kung Fu Panda, Ice Age, Chipmunks, Happy Feet, Shrek, Toy Story, Despicable Me, Madagascar, How to Train Dragon? Admittedly sometimes yes, but not this time.
Attention: This review is about the premise of the story and the reoccurring themes throughout the entire movie.A huge portion of this movie is Dory freaking out about memory loss. She is constantly going to a dark place, as she realizes over and over and over again, that she is in a perpetual nightmare of forgetting what she's doing and worrying about forgetting who her friends and family are.If you want to watch a mentally-ill fish continuously losing her sh**, beating up on herself for feeling inadequate, and flopping into a downward spiral of sadness, then this is the movie for you.Luckily, for the rest of us, there is comedy sprinkled throughout. But only just enough to feel like short breaks from the usual punishment of 'I keep forgetting, What is wrong with me, I keep forgetting, What was I doing, I keep forgetting, I am all alone, I keep forgetting, I need to remember what I was doing', etc.
honest it has Medicare but still enjoyably i liked baby dory she was soupier cute but the plot was literal garbage and my child cried when they found dory it was so sad i mean pix er makes movies that are mindless and children can enjoy them and parents hate them so why should this movie bee any different. I liked it and id never see it again if i was forced to like seriously why is Tom henks playing an octopus hes like such ͡ horrible actor jk i love you henks ;) anyway i think that Disney really should just stop making movies because all of then suck like actually though why? They literally make me want to throw up ͡ donut. Although i did like Finding Dory. That was a stellar movie 200000/10 give it a Grammy!!!!!!!!!!!!! ;) :D XD ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
If you're looking for a cute and entertaining movie to kill some time on a lazy Sunday - go 4 it. 'Finding Dory' is a sweet and charming sequel with a bunch of wonderful dubbers (Ellen DeGeneres, Albert Brooks, Ed O'Neill) and funny allusions to 'Finding Nemo'. No more, no less!
Finding Nemo 8/10 Finding Dory? The force awakens... reheated, rehashed, rescripted film that rips off the original with no charm, no reason to exist and has the original voices show up not for fun, integrity or art but for a fast pay cheque. Full stop.It's compared to Finding Nemo and has some of the same cast and crew. However, this film is no Finding Nem. While it follows a similar structure to the prequel, the 'colour by numbers' themes, songs and travel feel a bit tired. I enjoy the sea theme and feel they could have made this a great film, but they have made a OK film that is good for recent immigrants and refugees who did not see the original. This developmentally challenged character uses the 'ocean' where Finding Nemo used the reef, sea, ocean and the world as a metaphor. The main song is boring, but not as boring as Frozen or Moana. The truck and fish out of water sequences are wholly unrealistic and very very lazy.
'Finding Nemo' to me has always been one of Pixar's best, colourful, imaginative, hilarious and poignant with great characters (who cannot love Bruce the shark, plus Dory speaking whale is one of Pixar's funniest moments).Pixar have been hit and miss since 'Up', with some great films like 'Toy Story 3' and 'Inside Out' (which are two of my favourites from the studio) and some disappointments like 'Cars 2' and 'The Good Dinosaur' (don't hate them as much as many others do though, also didn't think 'Brave' was that bad, though it was not the best animated film that year, and liked 'Monsters University'). While it is not as good as 'Finding Nemo', 'Finding Dory' is a worthy sequel and one of their better efforts since 'Up'.The film does meander in places with occasional draggy pacing and a couple of rather too convenient plot devices, and Dory's memory loss shtick does get repetitive quickly that it does grate too early on. However, the animation is wonderful with an even richer colour palette perhaps than 'Finding Nemo' and matches that film in meticulous detail and visual imagination. The music score is rousing, whimsical and nuanced.Where Pixar has always excelled at its best is the balance and execution of humour and pathos. Humour and pathos are balanced deftly in 'Finding Dory', with the humour hilarious and in abundance and the pathos bringing genuine tears and emotional power. The story is flawed and doesn't have the imagination or originality of 'Finding Nemo', but the energy, humour and emotion shine through more than brightly and one does relate to Dory in her quest, one that anybody can relate to if in her situation.Good characters always help and actually are crucial in making a film work. 'Finding Dory' has them, not just Dory, who has lost none of her comic timing but moves the viewer as well, or Marlin and Nemo who bring sweetness and poignancy to the story, but also the scene stealing seals and gleefully entertaining Hank who provides many great moments. One does miss Bruce though. The voice acting is terrific, with Ellen DeGeneres, Albert Brooks and Ed O'Neill being particularly spot on.To conclude, 'Finding Nemo' is a great film, this reviewer found 'Finding Dory' to be a worthy sequel. 8/10 Bethany Cox
Is was an okay animated film but if know anything about Finding Nemo, not so good. Dory's infamous memory issues disappear in this film besides her occasionally saying that she has memory problems. Nemo and Marly basically disappear. I like the addition of the new cast and live the Modern Family addition. I love the new characters just was a horrible addition to Finding Nemo. Dory suddenly remembers the past and present- short term and long term memory, but continues to claim memory problems. Also, those of you claiming this is bad for foster, adopted children- Dory was not a foster child or an adopted child. She was just lost. Of course foster children or even adopted children fantasize that they are really loved by their birth parents. So do abused children, neglected children, children of drug addicts, and orphans. It doesn't hurt anything. It is natural. It Is normal. It is in good taste. I promise that if you in some way attempt to communicate that it is wrong for your child to view this innocent, animated film: you will lose credibility with your children. If your children have yet to be informed of their adoption: you will let them know. This film is G rated.
This is a good sequel to finding Nemo I really don't understand the hate makes no since to me but kinda wanted the parents of dory a little bit more story the only problem I have
I'm 21 but this really takes you back to childhood. I seen Nemo but this, this is a far better sequel. The octopus is amazing, best character of the movie. Honestly there's no competition for Pixar, its movies are better than Disney.
(RATING: ☆☆☆☆ out of 5) THIS FILM IS RECOMMENDED. IN BRIEF: A fish-out-of-water tale that celebrates family, friendship, and disabilities. GRADE: BSYNOPSIS: Little Dory goes on a search for her parents and overcomes many hardships along her journey.The search is on yet again in Disney / Pixar's sequel to its 2003 hit, Finding Nemo. Only this time it's not Marlin hunting for his son, but his lovable and forgetful sidekick on the road to find out. Things go swimmingly in this latest chapter. Finding Dory takes the same initial premise and repackages it into a family-friendly always entertaining computer-generated fantasy.￼The same love and care is on display in this finely crafted animated feature as before. The sequel may not be as original as its predecessor, (it isn't), but it is still packed with enough emotion, insightful dialog, and visual awe. Directed by Andrew Stanton and Angus MacLane, Finding Dory finds the right course in telling its tale of a little fish with short term memory loss overcoming the odds in search for her family.￼Visually, the film remarkably creates its under the sea universe. The reflections, rich color palette, and lighting effects are rendered with expert details. There is so much to take in with the background photo realism, plus the character animation has subtle textures and expressions that provide an inner story to each character.￼Yet, the deeper message in this children's film is its celebration of disabilities. Weaknesses become strengths in overcoming adversity and we moviegoers cheer our characters onward. Their quest eventually takes them to a marine research institute and, once the trio hits dry land, the sense of underwater wonder dries up a bit too. At this point, the script loses its way and starts to take an all too familiar route, introducing new adorable characters (and possible tie-ins at toy stores), leading to another zany far-fetched climactic chase scene and eventual reunion. Still, the predictability of the formula works yet again and tugs at our emotional core.￼Behind the microphones are a talented cast of celebrities voicing these lovable characters. Taking center stage is Ellen DeGeneres' Dory. The comedian gives her character a wonderful sweetness and breathless wonderment as Dory encounters new experiences along the way...but then, everything is new to our absent-minded heroine. Albert Brooks returns again as Marlin, and Hayden Rolence takes over as Dory's sidekick, Nemo, and they make a delightful tag team. Providing vocal support are Idris Elba, Dominic West, Ty Burrell, Diane Keaton, Eugene Levy, with Ed O'Neill stealing every scene as crotchety Hank, the seven-armed camouflaged octopus.Not in the same league as the aforementioned 2003 film, Finding Dory essentially tells a familiar (and overly cute) story, although it relies a bit too much on its original source. The film still visually enchants and allows the moviegoer to sit back and enjoy the humorous adventure as one little fish conquers its own disability to find inner strength and happiness. Perfect family fare and beguiling in its under-the-sea eye-popping technicolor beauty, Finding Dory is not a top-tiered Disney / Pixar classic, in the lines of Toy Story, Up, or Ratatouille, but it is a very fine addition to the studio's cinematic resume.NOTE: Showing with this film is an animated short called Piper. The film is charming and a shoo-in as an Academy Award nominee for Best Animated Short Film. Wordless and gorgeous in its splendid details and textures, the film tells a story of a little sandpiper gaining courage against the forces of nature. Delightful.￼Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
The movie itself was in my opinion disappointing. Maybe it's just me being grown up (which I doubt) but the movie was just lacking so much. Didn't laugh or even smile once throughout the movie. It was just meh i didn't feel like there was any humor in the movie and there wasn't any exciting parts either. After more than 10 years from finding Nemo to this it's just disappointing. I'm not saying it's bad, i'm just saying it's not as good as expected. There wasn't any part where i felt danger or where i felt that dory getting lost was actually important at all Music didn't make me feel anything through the whole movie. Animation could've been better as well. Could probably still be a good movie for kids but for people who already watched finding Nemo and who watches lots of movies its just not worth the money
I went to watch this with my man and his employee and it was disappointing. I have Finding Nemo on DVD and like it very much. My only merits for this film are for the noble intentions of Nemo and his father, besides that, this is almost 2 hours of my life I won't get back, this film drags on so much that by the first hour I felt like I'd spent a full day watching it and on top of that I still had very little connection to the characters and their story hadn't even started. Second hour hit, still nothing, I was almost asleep. hahahaaha an octopus that is missing tentacles, not really. I might as well have been asleep, the story was still stagnant. As a sequel, it's like watching paint dry, it just doesn't get going. If you have the time to spare and have nothing better to do or watch then by all means, watch this film, but if you have something better do with your time then please, avoid this film. The length of the film doesn't justify the lack of story or the cinematic prowess, this could very easily have been a half hour short film. I can say none of us enjoyed much about this film. My bf thought it was empty and his employee thought it was strictly for children whereas the prequel was for children and adults. On the bright side we went home afterwards and had good satisfying sex until midnight so it was a good day.
I thought it would be one of the best second part ever made, but to my surprise it turned to be a standard bad second part.Where is the hilarious Dory and the amazingly essential funny characters like the fish tank ones in the first movie. I just found a basic line trying to make a good story. And a boring story trying to not cross the line of disgusting. Characters that have my barely passing grade. But my predictions for this movies were so high that the failure was bigger, just like, I hoped, for all the ones who saw it 13 years ago.See it if you want to know what happens with Dory's family at any cost, but if you just have a low curiosity, just don't see it. I recommend you to see finding Nemo again.Please don't even think to make a third movie in 13 years.
As we learned from Cars 2, bringing a supporting cast member - in that case, Mater - to lead a sequel often essentially makes the side the entree. Watching 2 hours - and wow, is this thing too long - of Dory doing cutesy stuff and forgetting stuff becomes grindingly tedious. The miracle of 'Finding Nemo' grew out of the animators finding a way for small fish, who are essentially prisoners of the vast and largely featureless water, to have often land-based adventures without unduly straining credulity. 'Finding Dory' lacks the inventiveness when it comes to working around the limitations of the aquatic by employing an octopus who luckily doesn't need to be kept wet, who breathes are, can drive a truck, can match any background he squishes against, and who happens to have fine motor skills. Sure real octopi can open a jar to get a fish out but riding a stroller like a wheelchair comes across as a wincey bit unrealistic. The underwater seascapes drawn by the animators are amazingly realistic and if you just turn down the sound of the humorless and dull dialog, the movie is on whole beautiful to look at. There's just too much of it to look at with a runtime that features way too much swimming of small fish through pipes or underwater paths or sunken freighters. In short, Pixar needed to spend more resources on the script and less on the animation.
If 20th Century Fox's Ice Age: Collision Course valiantly attempted to keep up with the series by throwing as many ideas into the mix, you would think an animated studio steeped in success as Pixar is would be more than capable of stepping up to the plate and besting themselves with a sequel.I'd say not after seeing Finding Dory, which is essentially the script of Finding Nemo (2003) re-hashed for a generation who either missed that film the first time around or the passage of time has led them to forget it.Some smart new characters make their debut here but the few-and-far-between ingenuity that is usually the hallmark of Pixar is overdone in a film as barren as the Dead Sea.
This movie is about a fish 'child' with short term memory loss. Why would Pixar make a movie about a fish with short term memory loss you ask? Because it is the politically correct venue of the day. It's not meant to entertain children but to 'teach them a lesson' of how they should treat other children whom they happen to meet that have short term memory loss, which, in any person's life time, the odds of meeting anyone with this disability is almost nil. I'm really old and have never met any. But YOU have become so brain washed by political correctness that you don't even notice when it's being thrust upon you. I say YOU because I am too old to buy into this freedom stealing bull crap. This movie doesn't deserve to be given even a 1(one) but I can't give it anything lower. Watch this and know you are losing a portion of your life that you can't get back and that you are being fed propaganda. On the other hand the CGI is outstanding so if you want to watch for that part only then turn off the sound and enjoy the CGI. 'Nuff said.
Hold on, my fellow film fanatics, critics and viewers. I've heard all of the bad reviews of this film. I am not oblivious to the fact this is a big budget Hollywood animation sequel, and I know that when some of you hear the word sequel, big budget, or even Hollywood, you automatically dismiss it as a trashy entertainment cash grab. But Finding Dory is more than a cash grabbing Hollywood sequel. It is the passing of the torch between generations. The older generations gift to the young generation, a chance for the young to experience the laughter, emotion and nostalgia of Pixar, and in particular, these characters of the finding Nemo universe.Is it better then Finding Nemo? Of course not. It's an unwritten law that the sequel can't be better. But is it unnecessary( as some of my fellow reviewers claim)? Well, it is just as unnecessary as Finding Nemo, or any other film for that matter of fact. In other words, it's not. When I was walking home from the cinema, I too questioned the necessity of this film. I thought for a while and came to the conclusion that this film does what any film does ( and what most sequels don't do). It tells a story, it grips us with adventure,comedy and emotion, it expands the characters and adds new lovable ones. What is unnecessary about that? Isn't that why we got to the cinema- to be entertained and to be moved? One reason why I believe this film has received negative reception amongst the older generation( I am too aware that there are many lovers of this film too, maybe more so than haters) is that they thought this film was made just for them. They thought that this will be the nostalgic hit made specifically for them. But that is not what films ( and especially Hollywood and animated films) do. They speak to everyone from everywhere. They communicate messages and emotions that all ages from all countries can understand ( provided that the correct subtitles are in place!) I saw posts on Facebook saying 'Parents: please don't take your kids to this film. I want to enjoy it. They won't understand the meaning of it!' And I agreed to this, especially when I was sitting in a cinema half full of 18-25 years old and the other half full of little kids. But it wasn't until I heard the laughter of the children during the film and the smiles on their faces afterwards that I truly understood the purpose of this film. It was Pixars way of allowing the young people of this generation to enjoy what the last generation of young people enjoyed. And that's the magic of a Pixar film, and as I said before, it was a way of connecting the generations to help both generations understand each other's love for this 'universe'. To understand and feel the magic, laughter and hopefully, one day a shared nostalgia and love for this great animation company and its characters.
While this much-anticipated sequel provides a few instances of comic relief and introduces a handful of new characters, there is only so much you can do with a story-line where the same obstacle presents itself for each situation; Dory can't remember, but she's trying her best.The protagonist manages to just keep swimming her way through all sorts of unexpected twists and turns, hindered by her disability but with the help of all sorts of friends and family. There were a couple of scenes which intersected quite well with events from the 'Finding Nemo' time-line in a nearly Tarantino-esque fashion. I found this to be an impressive attempt to maintain story integrity where most modern-day CGI flicks would have just cut to a singing and dancing animal.Overall, the story-line was lacking. The CGI seemed shoddy at times, the score was uninspired, and the original sense of adventure that came with 'Finding Nemo' was replaced mostly with varying degrees of caution and stories about modern day values; 1) Don't belittle the disabled. 2) Have faith in family and friends. 3) Be sure to watch the next three CGI movies featuring singing and dancing farm animals with no discernible plot. I awarded a reasonable 5/10 rating. Points were deducted for what I consider to be excessive baby talk.
I laughed a couple of times at the octopus, but otherwise this was tedious stuff, the worst kind of baby-food: sugary and cloying. Is this really the same company that brought us the wit and wisdom of TOY STORY, WALL-E or UP? If so, it is unrecognisable.All that technical know-how, all that talent, wasted on this sentimental slush.I know, I know. I obviously left my sense of humour outside the cinema. It's making the company a fortune, so what do I know? Evidently not much. All that matters is that the children love it, right? Who cares if it pickles their imaginations by conjuring up a non-world, something that could only exist in the swarming collective brain of a gigantic corporation?I recommend running early Pixar or classic Disney for your young ones. They've stood the test of time, which FINDING DORY will inevitably fail on account of its unacceptably high sugar content.
I went to the cinema today with a very happy and excited 5 and a 7 year old to see Finding Dory on their school vacation, and came out of the movies with both of them red-eyed and crying.I loved Finding Nemo, it is a beautiful movie that I've watched time and time again, and I couldn't wait to see this sequel. Worse case scenario for me was this movie would be bad because it was a repeating the story-line of Nemo, but I was not expecting it would be because Disney Pixar took this movie to a sad and upsetting place.The movie started with story-line based around a young fish Dory with a memory loss illness, loosing her parents (a young kids worst nightmare). All of the characters had a scary odd feel around them, even the ones who were supposed to be Dory's friends and helping her, came across terrifying. This movie had no laughter, no fun, no cuteness, it was one hideous scary ride from one moment of peril to the next with no let-up. Touching on some real adult themes such as losing parents, illness and death... It was all too much for the children, and for me.If someone had told me before I went to see the movie that Finding Dory would be scary and unsuitable for children I would have said they were being overly sensitive, or ridiculous, but sadly it's true.
Maybe I'm biased because, Finding Nemo used to be my favorite Pixar movie when I was a kid so my hopes were very high going into this. Not bad or terrible just below expectations and an overall meh. Its a pretty harmless kids movie that they will probably enjoy but for an amazing followup to Finding Nemo it might not meet every expectation. **Full Review and Spoilers** Dory works better as a side character definitely. This reminded me of Cars 2 where Pixar thought it was a good idea to make Mater the main character but he just wouldn't stop talking and came off as annoying. The same pretty much applies for Dory. I like Dory as a character but What made Dory likable is that the writers knew when to use her and when to have her be quiet. She was able to be loud and exuberant but still likable because they used her in certain amounts. In this movie she is just constantly talking on and on. There was one scene where Dory and this Octopus are sneaking down a hallway and Dory is irrelevantly babbling the whole time and all I could think was 'If she wasn't talking right now this scene would be exactly the same but better'. Its just a typical case of putting a good side character in a main character spot and it being unsuccessful.I think Nemo's character could have been stronger they definitely missed an opportunity there. His only trait in this movie was 'I believe in Dory' which is nice but they could've done something more with him. Maybe it should have been just Nemo without Marlin trying to find Dory that way Nemo could have matured or developed some character like his dad did in the first movie.The references got a bit annoying. I love a good callback but these weren't clever just blatant and repetitive. There times where the characters were literally just reciting the plot of the first movie. All this did was remind me that I could be watching a better movie. I think they did this to bring up a feeling of nostalgia but I think they would have been more successful at doing that if the callbacks were subtle.The plot was pretty wonky as well. There were several times I think the movie could have ended. The pacing just felt very off and rushed, some parts could've been slown down or cut like the octopus driving a friggin truck. Instead they could've cut that scene and maybe put in a slower scene that helped show the development of Dory and the Octopus' friendship or something. (That relationship was one of many things that felt rushed as well).I wish that since this was a sequel to a movie that was made thirteen years ago that they could've put more material for older audiences to enjoy. Just because a movie is targeted at kids doesn't mean there can't be stuff and elements in there for adults to enjoy as well. Pixar normally does well at making movies that kids and older people can enjoy and relate to. I just thought this movie in particular was very shallow and pandering toward kids, but I have a higher expectation for Pixar with this kinda thing as I previously mentioned so this could just be me.But as I said this movie isn't all bad. Pixar is very good at electing emotions and this movie had some emotional moments. Like Dory actually Finding her parents or when she thought they were dead. That first person scene when the truck with Marlin and Nemo in it was pretty exciting, sad, and cool. I think they did a pretty good job with showing the struggle associated with short term memory loss (even though the amount of flashbacks she kept having kind of made it seem like she didn't have memory loss).Overall this movie is not terrible just bland. Its just a typical cute clean Pixar movie that kids will like enough. I couldn't recommend it to older audiences though.
I was expecting more than this as it is true that Finding Nemo has been one of greatest in my list. This sequel lacks humor, desperate situation, suspension, delightful moment which was all there in the original one. it was long time ago like thirteen years first I seen Nemo and when I see his name or character in anywhere, it brings me smile and make me thinking about the movie again. but this one...sorry...you got too many people to find now. I still have hope to see another one from this cute fish and want to experience another moment from third one before not too late.. but it seems like there's no more fish to find..
Finding Dory had the potential to be annoying, and for a certain amount of time, it feels almost laborious due to Dory's memory loss being played for effect numerous times before her long term memory kicks into gear. Once it does, the movie takes off. Dory pulls Marlin and Nemo along with her to meet another batch of interesting and funny sea creatures, as she learns where she came from, how she got lost, and where her parents got off to. It's a terrific kids movie, and has enough emotional depth to stay interesting for the adults, especially those who were kids when Finding Nemo was out in 2003, and felt the fear and apprehension of Marlin as he and Dory hunted for his lost son.There will probably not be another one of these movies, but that's fine. The story is superb, the characters are diverse and fun, and there's plenty of bright colors and beautiful visuals to go around. It's heart is, undeniably, in the right place, with new, amazing side characters that has become expected from Pixar. It just never achieves the highest emotional impact on me, like I felt many previous Pixar films have had. Pixar is great at making animated movies that have more to them than just simple kids stuff, and they've proved that over and over. It's no accident that this movie is the highest grossing animated film of all time. ---From Yidioo
Back to the pond for Pixar, where we find things largely unchanged from the end of 2003's Finding Nemo. As the continually-forgetful blue tang Dory has a sudden enduring flash of her childhood, a rush of recall, she gathers the clownfish for one more globe-spanning adventure. The setup is a little soft, lingering too long in the shadow of the first film, but eventually we break free of that sentiment and forge a new (if similar) identity for the sequel. The closed-in landscape of an aquatic themed zoo/amusement park feels a bit claustrophobic at first glance, but as hijinx ensue and we learn more of Dory's early years, it all fleshes out nicely. No shortage of colorful new characters there, literally and figuratively, not the least of which is Ed O'Neill's escape artist 'septipus' (having lost a tentacle in the touch tank), who treads dangerously close to becoming a deus ex machina with his versatility. O'Neill brings his usual disgruntled pessimism to the role, though, and some genuinely clever sight gags using the creature's natural assets go a long way to smoothing that over. He's overly convenient, but we're always glad to see him again. Witty and fast-paced, with a good mix of gags for the adults and their kids, plus a potent dose of the studio's famed poignancy. I laughed, I misted up, but I never quite fooled myself into thinking it was superior to the first.
Finding Dory is the sequel to the successful Finding Nemo movie. The story lines of these movies are quite similar. Both Nemo and Dory are lost and their friends/family try to find them. Through some clever, not always realistic, but funny ideas the movie ends happily ever after. Finding Dory is, just like the previous movie, very funny and is enjoyable for every age. The movie is really sweet and contains a beautiful message.
Finding Nemo is my one of my favorite movies of all time, so you can bet I was excited when I found out they were making a sequel. I was slightly skeptical, but once I found out Andrew Stanton was directing, I knew this would be more 'Toy Story 2' rather than 'Cars 2'. I was expecting something amazing, something new. This was what I got.The film is predictable at every turn. It's hard not to be predictable, but really? Also, plot conveniences are abundant. How is it that Dory just so happens to stumble across the aquarium she grew up in? Also, it takes two minutes, give or take, to get all the way from Australia to California? Finding Nemo took almost an entire movie to get from the Great Barrier Reef to Sydney. At least spend a few more minutes on the travel there.Hank is a great character, but he is used unrealistically, even in Pixar terms. He drives a truck off the road! Pixar spent so much time animating him, yet they couldn't use him realistically. Also, Dory's memory problems get old very fast. In Finding Nemo, they added to her character, and actually added something to the plot. Here, it is used mainly for comedic purpose.And that's another part of the film: it tries to be more of a comedy. Yes, Finding Nemo is a comedy, but it's controlled. Finding Dory is just...cheesy, to be honest. I felt that we didn't need a sequel to Finding Nemo. In fact, I wish Pixar would stop making unnecessary sequels. I know they won't, because of the billions of dollars they receive every year from merchandising, but Pixar was built on quality animated movies. I'm disappointed they're making Toy Story 4, and...Cars 3. No one asked for those movies. But I am thoroughly excited for Incredibles 2, since the first movie left us on a cliffhanger back in 2004.All in all, Finding Dory was unnecessary. It was cheesy, predictable, unrealistic, and didn't offer anything new. The only reason I'm giving it 5/10 stars is because of the animation. My god, is it beautiful. I hope they implement this level of animation on a better film. 5/10 - Recommended for children, and adults that aren't looking for a new 'Finding Nemo'By the way, the short film before this one was awesome. The animation was spectacular. They need to make another 'Piper' short film, because I want to see more of that bird.
Finding Dory had me in tears, and not just me, but several others in the theatres as well. Dory is a character that steals your heart without meaning to. In the first Finding Nemo, she is purely comic relief, but in Finding Dory, you really get to know her story. From her innocent upbringing with her family, to her separation from them, and her persistence in finding them. Dory isn't perfect, yes she is extremely naive, yes she is happy go lucky, and as one other reviewer describes, 'bumbles along,' but she faces fears and anxiety just like everyone else. Does she like her predicament? No. Does it frustrate her? Yes. You see this time and time again in the movie. But there is hope, and this is where the tearjerkers happen. Despite all the struggle, there is hope. Dory has friends, and somewhere out there she has family. It's a fun adventure from beginning to end, and it's fun for all ages. You also don't necessarily need to see Finding Nemo first to watch Finding Dory, although it does help, as there are some references to the first movie and some plot holes from the first movie that get filled in this one. Loved Finding Dory. One of my all time favourite Disney films. 10/10.
Finding Dory was truly unforgettable. The movie was absolutely incredible and one of Pixar's best. I honestly think that this was just as good or better than the original. The character development was absolutely incredible and Pixar reminded us of that periodically throughout the movie. The story was inspiring, funny, and very thoughtful. Following almost every single sentimental moment was a moment of pure joy and positivity. The scenes were filled with absolute breathtaking and blissful renderings. The characters seemed to move almost flawlessly and gracefully through the water. The animation was exceptional. Thomas Newman's score was obviously stunning. He reprised the score so well. Andrew Stanton definitely directed a beautiful movie and I'm sure fans of the Finding Nemo franchise will be immensely proud and grateful for it. This was definitely Pixar's best sequel and by far, one of the best Pixar movies ever created.
With all the awful adult films available this summer, we went to this. Having seen 'Nemo' several years ago, I expected something new and exciting. I'm a big Ellen DeGeneres fan, but the lame script and lack of punch made her offerings of little import. Once again, we have the fish, defying all the laws of nature. Dory is looking for her parents. If she were human, she would need constant supervision because her memory situation. She is supposedly capable of livings her life, but has no coping skills. I know this is an animated feature, but the very idea of finding her parents is so far-fetched, even to stretch the limits of this medium. Things are so contrived, including the whole business of quarantine and shipping fish to Cleveland and that octopus and so on, that I lost interest. Unlike the original movie, there was almost nothing funny here. Apparently Dory got older and bigger but Nemo is still a child and still the same size he was before. Has anyone asked about this? Visually, some of the movie was striking, but, when it was over, I didn't feel any emotion. There are so many superior animated features out there and Pixar didn't follow through on this one.
Finding Nemo was a big hit with kids and adults alike and led to a surge of interest in clown-fish.Finding Dory is set a year after the events of the first film, as the forgetful Dory, a blue tang fish gets flashbacks to her early fish years in Morro Beach, California and strives to find her parents.Marlon and Nemo assist her but they soon become separated and a lot of the action is set in an Aquarium with narration by Sigourney Weaver. There Dory meets Hank the Octopus who is a master of camouflage and reluctantly decides to help Dory in her quest.It is clear to see how much the CGI animation has improved since Finding Nemo, but this sequel is less charming and also has less originality. Too many scenes are contrived so you see familiar faces or have Dory getting flashbacks with her parents. The finale with a truck chase sequence is just far fetched.My kids enjoyed the movie and found parts of it emotional as well. Interest in clown-fish will still be around for a few more years.
Those who loved 'Finding Nemo' will anticipate some adventures under the water, which 'Finding Dory' caters. Just like the previous film, which has gained a cult status, the animation and sequences are pretty marvelous. I guess it would be much more a lavish experience if you watch it on a big screen. It takes you to the world inside the water under the seas, pipes, aquariums, and buckets. Through the superb animation and a fast pace, it holds you and entertains you for its entire length. Though there is a lot of happenings in the film, it is not an improvement over 'Finding Nemo,' in terms of story or characters. Dory lacks the charm spelled by Nemo; and it kinda drops to unbelievable clichés in the end. In comparison, 'Finding Nemo' is still preferable.Rating: 2 stars out of 4
I am not sure about this movie title. I mean, there is a search for Dory, but I think that the whole movie is about a search of Dory's parents. I loved the first one, but I am not sure that I liked this one. + Everybody's here again (except those sharks and a fellow from dentist's aquarium) + Some interesting parts of the film (maybe Dory's memories for the childhood)-The end of this film was predicted (also, I didn't like that with the lorry, so childish) - Also, didn't like that Dory's whale language and song (Just keep swimming) is something that she learned from her parents. That destroys her interesting personality. Repeating that was so forced and not natural to seeIt's obvious that this film is made just for children. I expected much more from this. I am sorry if I made some mistakes 'cause English is not my mother language.
Before I was going to see this movie I re- watched Finding Nemo. And I still liked it. It was overwhelming and charming and even scary sometimes. They took a lot of years to make Finding Dory so I've had high expectations.But when I was watching the movie I was bored. Yes, it was funny, it was HILARIOUS! But, that's all. It was a kids movie, not even scary for a second. I was really disappointed about that. The plot was good! In Finding Nemo the story was about a parent searching for his child and now it was about a child searching for his parents, and herself eventually.It's the perfect movie for a family but not a worthy sequel of Finding Nemo. Beware of that!
Finding Nemo was ground breaking. Not only was it considered one of the best animated films ever made, but it was universally loved by kids and adults alike. For years people begged and begged for a sequel, and now, here it is. Finding Dory. *sigh* I want to be able to tell you that this move hit the high expectation I held for it. I want to be able to tell you that this is a worthy successor to Finding Nemo, but it just isn't. What Finding Dory is, is an over-hyped mess. Granted, there are some pretty funny moments, and Ellen As Dory holds her own as the main actor of the film. But it really feels like Pixar didn't really care about making a good movie. I feel like, because this was such a long awaited film, Pixar knew whatever the outcome of the film, they were still going to make the cash. And at the end of the day, that's what it's really about. The characters are fine, and decently voiced. The story is okay, but drags after a while. the animation is definitely one of the better aspects of the film, but to wrap this up, overall Finding Dory is an average family film. It doesn't carry any of the magic that the first film had. There is nothing here to make me recommend this film, and I'm sad that this movie is getting such high praise when it truly isn't that great of a film.
'Finding Dory' has some stellar, heartfelt moments. I don't think the story is as interesting as Finding Nemo, but the movie is still great.Finding Nemo is one of my favorite movies ever, and I never thought it needed a sequel. After watching Finding Dory, I still don't think it needs to exist.The beginning of the story is an easy example. The first several scenes of the movie re-live some of the major and minor moments of Finding Nemo. Every one of those scenes I like better in their Finding Nemo versions. The story gets more interesting after these initial boring scenes, and I thankfully had a huge investment in the story over the course of the film.I liked the characters of this movie and didn't have a problem with them. But a friend reminded me of the profound impact the minor characters of Finding Nemo have on the story, themes, and humor. The characters in this movie are great, but against the unforgettable cast of Finding Nemo, they can't compete. So many scenes in Finding Nemo are brief, yet set up important lessons that drive home the theme of the movie. After watching Finding Dory once (not enough to give a final judgment), I can't say the same.Crush the sea turtle and Nigel the pelican in Finding Nemo are better than their closest competitors in Finding Dory. Same for the major characters like the tank fish in Finding Nemo.The visual beauty didn't seem to be there. In Finding Nemo the first instrumental on the soundtrack is called 'Wow'. There's hardly any Wow in Finding Dory. The story doesn't facilitate much beauty with the locations it's set in. Part of this is my bias. Early on, some fish are in a kelp forest. I prefer a colorful coral reef instead of a dark green kelp forest submerged in dark green water.Maybe awesome visuals don't need to be in this movie. Finding Nemo still exists, and Pixar just made The Good Dinosaur. But what should fill in that gap is still lacking. Story, characters, theme, etc..
I, like everyone else, had been waiting so many years for this movie to come out. I wanted to love this movie, but I just couldn't. I honestly don't even know what to give this movie. I am giving it two, only for the fact that I have seen worse. However, this movie was not as good as I was expecting it to be. I felt like there were inconsistencies between the two movies. Also, I loved Dory in the first one, but I did find her annoying in this one. Overall, this movie really bugged me. It was not, at all what I was expecting, or looking for. I honestly could not like this movie. The inconsistencies between, not only this movie and the first movie, but based upon just this movie... It was too much.
It's not as good as the first one, but it's a nice follow up. This isn't one of Pixar's film that will become a classic. But it's a movie that kids will have a lot of fun with and is watchable for adults. It isn't a Pixar movie with a lot of depth, deep meaning and messages when it comes to the story. But it's a simple and yet creative movie about Dory who has short-term memory trying to find her parents. With the help of her friends and acquaintances. Sure it can get tedious at times and it isn't a movie I would watch over and over again. But what makes this simple movie work is it's creativity and the situations the fishes and other sea animals gets into. And creative ways they go about it when trying to get out of danger and finding their way to certain locations. This isn't a sequel that I felt was necessary but it doesn't take anything away either.6.5/10
I'm a huge fan of 'Finding Nemo', with its many awesome scenes ('Sharkbait! Uh ha ha!') and interesting characters (Ex: Bruce the shark), but this movie has none of that. The story is paper thin weak: Dory suddenly remembers that she had parents and misses them, goes to meet them, finds her old house in like 5 minutes, even though 'it's on the other side of the ocean', and then the movie spends all its time with the characters missing each other in this big aquarium facility while I was checking my watch. That's it. No epic adventure, No nothing. New characters and dialogues are also very poor. A huge disappointment.Check out more of my reviews at http://www.crosstastemovies.com
Finding Dory is the long awaited sequel and takes place a year after the amazing Finding Nemo. This time, Dory is the protagonist and she's pretty enjoyable to watch. The story follows Dory trying to find her estranged family and parents with the help of a ton of new characters like Hank the octopus and 2 whales named Destiny and Bailey. This movie is a ton of fun and extremely funny throughout. The humor is funny for both adults and kids. The new characters bring a fresh breath of air to this franchise. However, the story really has no reason for including Marlin and Nemo for as long as they were in the film. They were both pretty much following Dory on her adventures the entire time. Also, the pacing and tone aren't grounded at all and it constantly switches between humor and serious drama. My last criticism is that the movie is not as emotional as it wants to be when watching it. The movie wants you to shed a tear but because of the inconsistent tone, you can't. Nonetheless, this is a fun sequel to Finding Nemo with a solid story, fun characters, and great humor.Overall, Finding Dory is an enjoyable film for adults and kids to watch and it has a lot of great things in it. I don't think it's even close to as good as its predecessor but it is a generally entertaining movie.Finding Dory gets a B+.
The only reason I didn't give this 1 star is because of Gerald's sweet eyebrows and Becky because I like birds. Saying it's a kids' movie doesn't cut it since adults watch the movie, too. And yes, they're talking fish, but against everything else, you might as well have put a rabbit in the water and gave it underwater-breathing powers with the way this film is structured. Why would a solitary clownfish in the Great Barrier Reef know what California was, let alone where? How did he find the migrating turtles again and so easily? Why did they bring Nemo on the adventure? Not to mention, within the coast of California is a pocket of cold water that brings in sweet spawning fish but threatening temperatures to the tropical fish friends. Toxins and pH levels are a big thing for fish, and Marlin and Dory are no exceptions, so why California of all places? Wouldn't it have made sense to just create a fake aquarium in Australia and have the gang go there?Octopi do have the ability to camouflage and stay out of water for periods of time, but the speed at which Hank moves is disturbing and too quick for a real octopus. At that point, we'd have lots of land-dwelling, rock-hopping octopi on our beaches, would't we? And there really was no point of Hank wanting to live his life out peacefully in a tank if he was going to die in a couple of years if he was lucky. Octopi sadly don't live very long despite their high intelligence. Speaking of intelligence, how did Dory learn to read? Who taught her? If it was her parents, who taught them? Were there--pardon me--schools of fish to teach the English language? Dory also speaks whale, but Destiny is not a whale; she is a shark, a fish. she's also a fish that can leap completely out of an enclosure which doesn't make sense because she doesn't have the capability of swimming fast enough to gain enough velocity to propel her enormous weight out of said water. I also feel bad because when it said Dory was part of the open ocean exhibit and I see all these fish bunched up in a tall column of water, I couldn't help but feel sorry for all of the sunfish, sharks, tuna, and turtles that obviously weren't crammed in the appropriate exhibit name. You couldn't even get the name of the exhibit right. Open ocean means open ocean, not claustrophobic tropical reef pipe. Bailey's echolocation is over-powered. Echolocation doesn't work the same out of water as it does in the water. How did the sound travel so far and span out across a 360-degree area and feed into his brain fast enough for him to process the spatial awareness around him? The water-hopping with Marlin and Nemo wasn't great, either. They went from cold California-hardened seawater to freshwater to mop water and then to fresh/seawater again. In the case that the changes in water didn't kill them, they would be very very sick. Also how is Nemo still a kid? It's been a year. 'He' should have reached sexual maturity by now, and he should've matured into a she with the current (ha) conditions. Why are Dory's parents still alive? Blue tangs need warm water to survive. How did they live in the cold California Pacific for that long? What about in winter when the temperatures and currents change? Pixar, your studio is a hop and a skip away to the ocean. What happened to consulting marine biologists on this? Do people genuinely find it funny when an octopus and blue tang hijack a van with hundreds of fishy lives and pile it through busy traffic, potentially killing and harming dozens of innocent people? I'd hope not, but that's what I got from this movie. At the end of the movie, everyone followed them all the way back to the Great Barrier Reef. Beluga whales live in cold waters where their proper food spawn. Doesn't that put stress on Bailey? What if I threw the writers of this film into the Antarctic to join their penguin friends without proper equipment and told them to find food and shelter without any knowledge of the area? Is that heartwarming and entertaining? No.The movie itself, was really bland. I almost envisioned the whole thing as a high-budget movie-based video game with smooth graphics. The areas are divided specifically like dungeons with obstacles and stealth sequences. However, nothing in the movie stood out to me in memory. I don't remember any dialogue being spoken from the characters, I had little care for the fish. This movie didn't even feel like a movie. It's like they got middle-school writers to write a G-rated fan-fiction 'Finding Nemo' adventure for their 4-year old sibling who wanted a story about Dory finding her parents because of a single exchange of dialogue uttered in the film. I think it was deliberately made because someone wanted to make another movie just because? I'm not sure, so don't take it seriously, but if that was the case, then it clearly shows. The kids might like this film. Disney-blind consumers and Pixar enthusiasts might like it, but not me. I felt like I spent the course of 2 hours verbally criticizing this garbage with my family, and that, coupled with Gerald's sweet eyebrows and Becky's cameo, were the only forms of entertainment I got out of it all. Not the story, not the characters, and definitely not the writing or logic. Oh gosh, it was bad.
The animation is fine - as is expected of modern films.As stories go it is the worst cartoon I've seen - only lifted by the great scenes containing Hank the Octopus, but they are not enough to make a movie.Nothing to match it's predecessor: Contrived, dull, cringe-worthy.
The well-known character from Disney's Finding Nemo has now finally gotten her own spotlight. Dory, the funniest fish in the ocean thanks to her voice actress Ellen DeGeneres, is able to take on another adventure. The movie also features all the other past characters that everyone fell in love with from the start. This film is amazing because of how well the voice actors portray the characters, the emotions it brings to the audience, and its animation.The voice actors in Finding Dory do more than an excellent job with making the animated characters come alive. The hilarious Ellen DeGeneres has once again impressed her audience in creating the amazing character that Dory is. While there are many characters that are familiar from Finding Nemo, there are new and unfamiliar ones that are great additions to the movie as well. There are many flashbacks in the film that refer back to Dory as a young girl. This adorable little fish was voice-acted by Sloane Murray, who does an exquisite job of making the audience fall in love with little Dory. Co-stars from the hit TV show Modern Family, Ty Burrell and Ed O'Neill make the voices of new characters Bailey and Hank. Aside from Bailey, another whale that is unknown is Destiny, voiced by Kaitlyn Olson. All of these amazing and hilarious voice actors are crucial to making Finding Dory a great film.There are many emotional, happy, and funny moments throughout the entire film that help make it a great story. Directors Andrew Stanton and Angus MacLane made sure to always make Dory's disability of short-term memory loss apparent from beginning to end of the movie, which sparks emotion for the audience. Finding Dory is a great especially for the younger audience in the fact that it teaches friendship, teamwork, and that your family is one of the most important things in life. It teaches that just because you have a disability doesn't mean that you can't do anything you set your mind to and you can still achieve many things in life. It also encourages risk- taking and not to be afraid of doing something just because you wouldn't normally do it. Watching this movie gives you the idea to not just sit around and do nothing for the rest of your life and to make the best of it. Reminiscing on Dory's past life makes Finding Dory that much better. Knowing what she had to go through and remembering things to help her through her journey are heart-warming and good life lessons to teach the audience. The animation in this film was indescribable. Its vibrant colors makes the film look very clear. Pixar never disappoints and they do an amazing job with modernizing cartoon's and fictional characters to make them more fun to watch. The beauty of the ocean's creatures and the beautiful colors that they use bring the movie to life moves Pixar to the next level. Even though prior to the sequel in the movie Finding Nemo, which was released in 2003, the characters still look and sound exactly the same. This is something that many movies and television shows lack as time goes on. It brings back the memory of Finding Nemo and the amazing characters that everyone knows and loves but adds in some hilarious ones to the mix that makes this movie different yet unforgettable.All in all, the film Finding Dory is a must-see. It is very hard to find negative things about it and Pixar has exceeded itself once again. It is hard not to fall in love with the beautifully animated characters and the amazing voice-actors that we all love. Great movie.
Finding Nemo was love at first sight. It was a breathtaking, bewitching & beautifully balanced underwater adventure that didn't just dazzle viewers around the globe with its emotionally rich tale about parenting, friendship, trust & determination but also cemented Pixar's position as a pioneer of quality cinema and a powerhouse of originality, creativity, imagination & groundbreaking computer animation. Add to that, it is still counted amongst the greatest achievements of animation filmmaking.In all honesty, I never wanted a sequel to Finding Nemo. That classic is perfect in every way, and I believed its sequel to be an unnecessary risk that would end up denting the legacy of the original. And yet, a part of me is pleased that it exists because Andrew Stanton has crafted this follow-up chapter with same passion, heart & dedication with which he crafted the first one. By all means, Finding Dory is no match to the original but then it also is no cash-grab sequel like Cars 2 was. There's a sense of déjà-vu in this tale but it also brims with just enough freshness to qualify as a welcome successor to a beloved masterpiece.Set one year after the events of the first film, the story of Finding Dory follows Dory, the regal blue tang suffering from short-term memory loss who starts having fragmented dreams & flashbacks of her life before she met Marlin & Nemo, and ultimately decides to find her family. Heading to the place where she vaguely remembers having seen her parents last, Dory is caught by volunteers of a Marine Life Institute and is put into the quarantine section where she meets a seven-legged red octopus named Hank, who agrees to take her to her loved ones in exchange for something. Meanwhile, Marlin & Nemo try to get into the institute in an attempt to rescue Dory.Co-written & directed by Andrew Stanton (best known for Finding Nemo & WALLE), Finding Dory opens with a flashback segment that introduces us to our titular character as an infant, covers her separation from her family, and then follows her journey over the years until she finally meets Marlin for the first time. And this opening sequence wonderfully sets the stage for the rest of the picture as Stanton sensibly addresses the themes of family, separation & identity, returns to Dory's childhood whenever possible, and although it results in some sort of fractured narrative, it also influences the next set of events that unfold afterwards, thus working in favour of the story.The screenplay is brilliantly penned down as well, for it retains the heart, soul & wit of the original, while adding more emotional weight & depth to our forgetful fish. While it is more melancholic than its predecessor, that element isn't overused and the story remains a fun-filled entertainer throughout its runtime. The oceanic life is revisited only briefly since majority of its plot unfolds in a marine institute, and yet the fauna beneath the sea is gorgeously rendered & meticulously detailed. It also adds an ample amount of new characters with Dory promoted to lead role while both Marlin & Nemo settle for a seat behind a couple of fresh arrivals amongst whom Hank leaves a lasting impression.Jaw-dropping 3D animation has always been Pixar's default setting from the start and this aspect remains unchanged with Finding Dory as the animators have done a terrific job once again, whether it's the underwater backgrounds, character designs or overall rendering of even the most minute details. Camera is splendidly utilised, images make use of all the vivid colours available in the palette, while pixel-perfect lighting gives it a more vibrant appearance. Editing skilfully interweaves Dory's past & present into an easily accessible storyline although the trimming of a few slow patches in the middle would have resulted in a more rigid narrative structure as well as improved pacing.As always the case with Pixar films, the voice cast for new characters is wisely chosen while the reprising cast exhibits no trouble in immersing themselves into their given roles. Ellen DeGeneres was easily the standout in Finding Nemo and she is easily the standout in Finding Dory, for her character gets to play with deeper emotions this time without discarding her good-hearted, optimistic & delightfully charming persona. Rest of the supporting characters, both reprising & new play their part convincingly, And last but not the least, Thomas Newman contributes with a calm, touching & emotionally resonant score that stays within the realm of the original.On an overall scale, Finding Dory is undoubtedly an accomplished sequel despite falling short of matching the greatness of its predecessor. Stanton's decision to go for a fresh & organic storyline instead of rehashing the same stuff is commendable and although not every attempt at humour works out in its favour, it remains a joyful ride from start to finish that will amuse both kids & adults alike. Did we really need a sequel to Finding Nemo? No. Is its existence justified? Somewhat. Am I glad that it exists? Yes. It doesn't take away anything from the original but it strengthens Pixar's position by a great deal, while simultaneously conveying to us that it is still capable of churning out sequels that are more than mere cash-grabs. Nostalgic, poignant & hilarious in rhythmic doses, Finding Dory marks yet another win for Pixar Animation Studios on critical, commercial & emotional scale. Highly recommended.
'Finding Dory' is more of the same...which will no doubt thrill children and audiences of the original, 'Finding Nemo'. But, for folks like me who are NOT big fans of sequels, there also is more of the same.The film is set before, during and mostly after the adventures that Nemo and his father went through in the previous film. Oddly, while Dory has no attention span and not real memory, she inexplicably kinda remembers her early life and goes off in search of her parents. Nemo and Dad go along to help and a bunch of new friends help Dory to achieve her dream.The film is a lazy product...a sequel which is enjoyable but introduces nothing substantially new. There's nothing offensive about it at all but I cannot understand folks being excited about it because the film is mostly by the numbers and takes few chances. Worth seeing if you want to see a CGI film (and the 3D looks nice) and don't mind an incredibly familiar cast.
We were both 50/50 on this movie. It could have very easily flopped. Good news is it never does that. While it is not perfection it definitely is a worthy sequel. All the voice cast return (excluding Alexander Gould, who would be too old to voice Nemo now.) Ellen Degeneres returns to do the voice of the annoying, but lovable Dory, Albert Brooks returns to voice Marlin. In this one, however, Marlin and Nemo are both supporting actors and just there to give Dory a helping hand whenever she loses her memory or is in trouble. Dory is the lead this time round.We all know the plot...Dory trying to find her parents. The film does introduce us to brand new characters, including the self centered, cranky octopus by the name of Hank (voiced by Ed O Neil). Let's not forget about Dory's lovable, childhood whale friend. All of them get plenty of screen time and no one gets little screen time.The film has loads of flashbacks to Dory's childhood and how he struggled to fit in with the crowd, but at the same time did not care about her short term memory loss problem and loved just being happy and had no plan and would just do whatever she wanted and whatever came her way.We all knew it wasn't going to be the classic 'Finding Nemo.' However, it's a very worthy sequel. Funny, heart warming, and very charming. Take the kids and family to watch it, you'll have a great time. 4/5 stars. 8/10- Autistic Reviewers.
Historically, Pixar Animation Studios isn't known for its sequels. The Toy Story films aside, the California based production company has almost always found more critical success with an fresh, original idea than with second or third iterations. Films like Monsters University and Cars 2 feel as if they miss a certain spark that make their predecessors so iconic. While Finding Dory faces a few of these same problems, it is for the most part, a fun and enjoyable return to the reef. Set one year after the events of Finding Nemo (2003), Finding Dory begins by telling the childhood tale of the titular blue tang and her parents, as well as their subsequent separation. Done in such a way that makes very clear that this is indeed Dory's story, the opening minutes are very reminiscent of Up: they set the emotional tone of the entire work. As the adventure to reunite Dory and her parents begins to unfold, flashbacks return the viewer to wide-eyed baby Dory and her childhood experiences. The flashbacks feel needed, and they rarely intrude or interrupt. They add an emotional backbone, one that explores feelings and sentiments that the first film did not. Despite being released thirteen years after Finding Nemo, the characters in Finding Dory feel fresh as ever. All of the returning characters look and sound the same (even if, as it was in Nemo's case, the voice actor has changed) and they act and react the same as they would in any scene from the first film. Ellen DeGeneres reprises her role to a tee, as do all of the returning voices. It's an achievement that should not be overlooked; recreating characters to the near perfect degree that Pixar has done in this film is a feat for the sequel business. The fact that it was done more than a decade after the original is equally impressive.While all the characters return in stunning form, I often found myself wondering if some needed to return at all. While I did enjoy their scenes, the sections featuring Mr. Ray or Crash felt a bit too much like a nostalgic merchandise move to be ignored. These scenes are sparse however, and I suspect it only feels like a problem because the new cast of characters shine so brightly. While Ed O'Neil's Hank and Kaitlin Olson's Destiny (an octopus and whale shark respectively) are standouts, every new creature the clown-fish/tang trio comes across adds their own degree of character and wit to the film. This is where Finding Dory shines its brightest. When it's allowed to forge new ideas and a fresh story, the narrative soars and the jokes land. The 'annoyed teenager' dynamic between Marlin and Nemo is particularly well done. But, while the film does have its fair share of emotional moments, there is a certain sentimental attachment that is missing. As I watched Finding Nemo I cared, deeply and truly, about whether or not the father and son were reunited. I anxiously awaited that moment when it would finally happen. As I watched Finding Dory, the only thing I found myself waiting for was the next joke. And, while they did indeed make me grin and chortle, hilarity can only carry Finding Dory so far. All too similar to Pixar's other sequels, that all important spark is missing. The lamp light doesn't shine quite as bright. The animation work and sound design is top notch, and I was once again reminded why Pixar is the best in the business. The uncanny ability to add human-like emotion to the face of a clown-fish or octopus is still outstanding thirteen years later. The swirls of fish alongside new locales and marine life make Finding Dory a delightful underwater feast for the eyes. Finding Dory is definitely worth the watch. In typical Pixar fashion, viewers of different ages will walk away with different favorite moments. It's funny, it's immersive, and, despite missing an emotional resonance of the first film, it's genuine. And, while five years from now it will more than likely still be the original that you pull down from the shelf, this sequel should not be missed.
This movie does not deserve 94% on rotten tomatoes nor does it deserved a 7.6 on IMDb. It should be more like a 6. I was deeply disappointed in this movie because the movie was boring. I was expecting a movie like Toy story 2 and 3, where you feel like you grew up with the movie or have a strong connection with the main characters. Like how I felt when watching Finding Nemo, I had a strong connection with Nemo's dad and emphasize with him when he was trying to find Nemo. Every conflict that Nemo's dad faced was totally unexpected. However, finding dory I pretty much expect a lot of thing that was going to happen. I really didn't have any attachment to any of the character. There were some emotionally scene but it really didn't moved me at all. Overall, the movie is very average where you watch and then forget about it. The movie is not a memorable so that is it's geared mostly toward elementary kids .My five-year-old brother really like it and maybe that was because there was a lot of actions that made him excited.
I was seven years old when 'Finding Nemo' came out, and now I am twenty... Wow does time go by fast. I used to watch this film nearly every day and never get sick of it. The sea has always been a fascination with me, and so I naturally loved the film because of it; with it's breath- taking animation, details to every underwater creature, laugh out loud moments mixed in with the perfect amount of emotion felt throughout. It was just another amazing Pixar film, but my personal favorite.When I found out about the sequel years later, I was excited, but skeptical. Dory is of course my favorite character, so I liked the idea of her being the main character this time around. Pixar in general doesn't fail to impress people with their surprisingly good sequels. 'Toy Story' 2 and 3 somehow surpassing the first, 'Monsters University' wasn't as great as the first, but it definitely had the familiar Pixar charm to it, and I really enjoyed it, but...there was one that fans were not pleased with: 'cars 2.' Though to be fair, I didn't really care for the first film either. Anyway, this film is definitely in-between the 'Toy Story' sequels and 'Monsters University', where it is an amazing film and sequel with even better animation, likable new characters, some very heart-felt scenes, but of course not as amazing as the first movie, but I already figured that.Like I said, the animation was somehow even more improved in this movie from the first (which looked beautiful in 3D). The park itself surprisingly looked quite real.The characters old and new were memorable, funny, and each had their moments. And to me, Dory being the main character actually worked well unlike Mator in 'Cars 2.' You cared about her journey...and who doesn't like Dory? The emotion? Oh jeez, don't get me started on that. As if tearing up from nostalgia wasn't enough, the movie can make you cry a river at times...or 'ocean' if you will. Luckily I brought tissues. I especially love how it carries another message about family like the first film. That to me is where the heart is.The humour was also fun. Some miss, but mostly hits! Overall, this film luckily did not disappoint. Me, my mom, aunt, and cousin all loved it. No it's not as great as the first, but it's pretty hard to compete with the wonders of 'Finding Nemo.' It's still a spectacular kid's film, Pixar film, and sequel. I highly recommend it! Overall: 9.5/10
The friendly but forgetful blue tang fish begins a search for her long-lost parents, and everyone learns a few things about the real meaning of family along the way.I suspect what you get out of 'Finding Dory' depends on what you put into it. I went in knowing nothing and still came away disappointed. While the movie has plenty of funny parts, and the animation is amazing, it doesn't seem all that memorable or like they really covered new ground from the first film.And it is not just because it is a sequel. Some would argue that 'Toy Story 3' was the best in that series. I doubt anyone could argue that 'Dory' was anywhere near as good as 'Nemo'. If it weren't for some interesting new supporting character, it would have been quite a rehash. Dory, the protagonist, is not really all that interesting.
I think it is blatantly obvious that this movie was hyped beyond belief. And, being one of the children who vastly adored Finding Nemo. I couldn't help but feel an immeasurable jolt of pure child-like excitement when the famous tune (spouted from our favorite tang's mouth every so often) ran through my head for the first time in years. And after viewing the movie with my cousin, close friend, and sister, I soon contemplated about what score I would give the movie out of ten. And, after deep thought, after trudging through every scene of the movie, finally, it hit me, this was actually one of Pixar's weakest films. It's just the original, but it's centered around the comic relief (which almost NEVER turns out well in most movies. . .) Ultimately, it was a bland, carbon copy of the first movie, with a cookie-cutter cast, an unoriginal plot that continuously loops due to Dory's talent. . . The ability to repeatedly lose track, have no idea where you are going, and then somehow be discovered by other characters. . . And, she isn't the only character that continuously milks this process, every character of the main trio is repeatedly lost and reunited with Dory. It became monotonous when the cycle was continued in the first film, so making a carbon copy, with a story based around the comedic relief, that repeats the same cycle of being lost and found will only make the dynamic of these movies more tedious and stretched.Finding Nemo itself was sort of weak in certain aspects. It was overall a great movie, but there was no real way of creating a solid sequel. And creating a story revolving around the character who almost always forgets every thought a short while after registering them suddenly remembering something important after such a long time since the event transpired is kind of asinine. . .The characters aren't really that special either. The most interesting one is an octopus. The rest are either annoying, or way too cookie cutter. . .Dory somehow ascends to a new level of infuriating stupidity, while Marlin goes from the 'disturbed father character who's on edge due to the loss of a family member' to 'and egocentric dickhead who repeatedly shames Dory over a condition that she has no control of.' Hell, the only character that still remained likable was the main character from the first film, Nemo, yes. . . Nemo. . . The annoying little clown fish whom we all secretly wished wasn't saved from the dentist's office, he is the most likable character of the main trio.Something really ticks me off about how much attention this film was given, despite the sheer lack of any effort in the story telling department. Sure, the animation was stunning, but, when it comes to movies, visuals can't really make up for an awful story. Let's face it, if you skip to the movies for visuals alone, then you are probably not the most suitable person to judge quality. . .This movie kind of sucked, and it felt like a waste of time. Though the animation and acting was great, that is all it had going for it, 2 out of 10 stars. . .
Cash grab. Pixar missed the mark on this one focused too much on the action and animation.
10 out 10 for the animation, albeit its by computer and not single frame gel like all classic cartoons where, For adults you spend the whole time putting a face to the voice. Children will never know the magic of Chuck Jones unless we show them.
We've watched this film 10 times because our 5-year old really enjoys it. There are a few too many slow and silly times that make it not nearly the quality of the great Finding Nemo, but it carries a lot of the charm with it somehow 13 years after the original. There are times where I feel this film falls on some weak and simple plot movements--but that is why it likely fared poorly during awards season. This is a good film, Nemo was a great film. Better than most kids films, but a bit of a messy direction.
I love this film.
It's visually stunning, with PIxar pushing the limits of animation continuously.
It's incredibly wholesome. Dory is just so darn vibin'. This kind of easy-to-digest family finding story is just nice. Sometimes simple works. I don't think this movie is a movie that enters the great halls of fame of cinema history, but sometimes a movie just needs to be fun.And by golly, this movie was.
My 7 year old daughter really enjoyed the movie along with the whole family. A touching story of a fish which gets separated from its family and reunites.
Finding Dory was pretty Boring, they dont actually do anything, all Dory does is just talk to random people she never met before and some who she did meet and believed that she was their friend and she was lost.
Finding Nemo was a great movie with lots of fun characters, enjoyable visuals and a good message. Finding Dory only exists to make money. This movie is flat-out boring.Yes, your kid will be satisfied with this movie, but they will also be satisfied with a GOOD movie like Toy Story, The Lion King, Fantastic Mr. Fox, or UP. Don't spend your time watching this movie and don't spend your money to watch it.
After 'Toy Story 3' was released back in 2010, Pixar has started to put out more and more follow ups to their previous critically acclaimed films this decade. I loved the aforementioned 'Toy Story 3', loathed 'Cars 2' and thought 'Monsters University' was pretty good, but not as great as the first film. So, I really didn't know what to expect with 'Finding Dory', the sequel to one of my favorite animated movies 'Finding Nemo.' I was nervous thinking it was just going to be a film that was going to be on par with Pixar's previous film 'The Good Dinosaur', but at the same time I was excited hoping it would be as fun and clever as 'Inside Out'. And luckily enough, it was another winning movie from Pixar. 'Finding Dory' is a great sequel that keeps up the excitement, makes you guess where the film is going to go, and is just straight up fun and funny.One year has passed from the previous film, and out favorite short-term memory loss fish Dory (Ellen DeGeneres), finally remembers something, her family. With the location being at 'the Jewel of Morro Bay, California', she set outs with Marlin (Albert Brooks) and Nemo (now played by Hayden Rolence) to go find her parents. When they arrive off the coast in California, Dory is captured by marine biologists and taken to a marine life institute. While she's in quarantine, she meets a very grumpy octopus, no wait a minute, septapus as he has lost a tentacle, named Hank (Ed O'Neill). She asks him to help her find her family in the institute in exchange for a tag the biologists have placed on her which would take her to an aquarium in Cleveland. Meanwhile, Marlin and Nemo are trying to figure out how to get inside the institute to find Dory through any crazy means possible.The best part of 'Finding Dory', like most Pixar movies is the story. It's crazy fun. It's exciting, funny, emotional, suspenseful, and keeps you guessing the whole way through which is what I really expect for a movie. The animation is also a great part of the film. Just like the first movie, it's beautiful. The colors are eye popping, the underwater world is mysterious, and the institute looks like a very nice place to visit. The characters once again are to many to count. Ellen DeGeneres is great as usual, Albert Brooks is pretty great, and I especially love Ed O'Neill as Hank. This octopus can blend into almost everything, which leads to some real funny comedy. Oh yeah, speaking of the comedy, this movie is hilarious. I think I was bawling my eyes out from laughing hard at this movie and I nearly got hiccups laughing too hard. The emotion is also where it needs to be. Some scenes in this movie can be tear jerker. Even though I didn't cry watching movies, I was very close to doing so watching this film.Personally, 'Finding Dory' is the best Pixar sequel since 'Toy Story 3'. No doubt in my mind. It could be as good if not even better than 'Finding Nemo'. I am dead serious. I really love this film. It's great. I can probably go on forever praising this movie, but I probably shouldn't. All I can say is go check it out. Trust me. It really is worth your time.
Toy Story 2 aside Pixar struggles with justifying their fellow-ups and the sequels have an odd relationship to the first films. Cars 2 has very little connection to Cars 1 in tone or theme. Monsters University basically doesn't link up to the first film. etc. This film is the most organic and worthwhile follow-up. I like it almost as much of the first film. The animation is still just gorgeous and you can once again get a painting from basically any shot. Best of all the film largely doesn't repeat beats or ideas from the first film. The trip across the ocean is much quicker in this film.The new characters-Hank and Dory's parents-fit in well with the prior cast and the voice work is again top notch. DeGeneres manages to find a real depth to Dory and manages to make the memory problem not annoying. Likewise, O'Neil is just great as the crusty, cautious, cynical Hank. Levy and Keaton hit the needed core to pull at the heartstrings.In some ways I like the story of this film more than the first one. This one really lives in Dory's disability and it is built around demonstrating how the characters cope with it. As a person with a learning disability I found this take on the material comforting to see it handled with such care. And the shot of the Dory's parents' work to get her back to them is most moving moment in either film.
Andrew Stanton, John Lasseter, Bob Peterson, Jeremy Lasky & Thomas Newton came back together after thirteen years to make a prequel to Finding Nemo, and it just didn't pay off that well. The first set was great! Stanton did all the right things to drag us in, and want more. As for the rest of the film, it was slower paced because there was much more going on this time around. On the downside, I felt as if Stanton got a little lazy, and borrowed some content from the first film, so a few scenes just felt unbalanced. The major downfall I had with this film, I can't have Dory as my main protagonist! She serves much better as a side character; her character is a close comparison to Mater, just not as annoying. It did the same thing Cars 2 did, and they both flopped.I can truly appreciate the effort the team put in, into creating new and original characters, but some of them were hit and miss. The screenplay by Andrew Stanton, Bob Peterson & new comer Victoria Strouse, didn't have as much charisma throughout, as the first one did, having pretty bad jokes, and just lacked heart that the first film spewed cranked out.The one thing that was better than the first film, was the cinematography and animation. The lights and darks, the texture in everything, to the fish, to the water, to the sunlight, was just spectacular, and breathtaking!I usually stay away from mentioning the endings, unless they really mean something, but this ending made this film plummet real fast. It was just too over the top, and tried to flesh out too much, because they realize they overstuffed the narrative to begin with.Overall, Finding Dory may not have been as fresh as the first, and took FOREVER to release, but it wasn't as bad as some of the other trash we got a few years ago.
Right from the start, it is possible to notice the structural change implemented in Finding Dory: the film starts with a flashback, with the little fish dememorial beside his parents and learning to deal with his constant forgetfulness. In addition to historically situating the new protagonist, the opening also serves to correlate this sequence with the original film. That's when we know that the new adventure takes place exactly one year after Nemo's rescue.The presence of flashbacks is very important in this new film: it is through them that Dory, little by little, receives clues about who they were and where their parents are. In addition to dealing with the past explicitly, Finding Dory reverses the proposal seen in the original film: if before an overprotective father left desperately in search of his son, now it is the daughter who is looking for her parents. In both cases, the need to have the family around is the main motivation - remember, Pixar is a Disney company, with all the merits and demerits it brings. However, if Finding Nemo shone with originality, its continuation is extremely dependent on the elements already known to the general public.It is clear that issues with the whale and Dory's constant forgetfulness are present once again, as well as Marlin's always worried air, now relegated to the post of supporting (and sometimes forgotten in the story itself, along with Nemo). Well-known characters, such as the hippie-shaped turtle, appear in small spikes. As much as such ideas even yield some fun sequences, they always sound like something reheated. The same joke is insisted, changing only the context in which it is presented.Such dependence is made even more explicit by the fact that the new characters do not stand out so much. If the Hank octopus even has an interesting side due to the dubiousness of posture, it is also wide open that his choice had a lot to do with the need for locomotion out of the water of Dory herself (in juggling that does not always convince, say in passing) . The itinerary is also concerned with instructing minors about marine fauna, as shown by biological curiosities scattered here and there and the presence of the beluga Bailey, with her powerful 'natural sonar'. In other words, there is a constant concern to have fun and also to transmit messages, whether emotional - connection with the family - or educational - the setting in the California aquarium is another example.Originally, Finding Dory is in just two moments: in the brilliant sequence of the 'touching tank', where reality is presented from the perspective of the beings who live there (an inversion of the point of view similar to the aquarium in the office, in Finding Nemo); and in the contrast formed by the shark Destiny and the aforementioned Bailey, involving questions of vision. In addition, they are the same situations already known, presented by an impressive quality of animation - note the difference in brightness at the bottom of the sea, depending on how deep the characters are.I liked this criticism of AdoroCinemaFilm reviewed on June 14, 2020.
Finding Dory is directed by Andrew Stanton and Angus MacLane and is Pixar's latest sequel, following up to 2003's Finding Nemo. In this film, Dory begins to envision flashbacks of her childhood, including her parents and activities she would do with them. She remembers where she used to live, and, along with Marlin (Albert Brooks) and his son Nemo (Hayden Rolence), swim across the ocean once again to find her long lost family.After 13 years of waiting, I was pretty pumped for Finding Dory, despite the underwhelming trailers. However, from the trailers, there were a few things to look forward to, such as the, once again, amazing voice acting, bright, vivid animation, and intriguing quest to find Dory's parents. Although I enjoyed the film, I couldn't help leaving the theater somewhat disappointed. There were more than a few elements that I felt could've been done better, despite the film being good as a whole.The best thing about Finding Dory has got to be the voice acting, specifically the lines delivered by the voice of Dory herself - Ellen DeGeneres. If anyone were to ask me what I would consider as a perfect blend between voice actor and character, I wouldn't hesitate to give them my answer, that being Ellen DeGeneres as Dory, from both Finding Nemo (2003) and Finding Dory (2016). DeGeneres brings a hilariousness, as well as a sincerity, to the character of Dory, completely bringing this character to life.Most of the other voice acting was pretty great too. Albert Brooks reprises his role of Marlin, the clown fish, and Hayden Rolence has taken over as Nemo on behalf of Alexander Gould, whose voice has changed since his turn as the character in '03. The film introduces a few new characters as well, such as Destiny, the near- sighted whale, voiced by Kaitlin Olson, and the beluga whale named Bailey, who can't echolocate due to a past injury, voiced by Ty Burrell. However, my favorite of all the supporting characters was that of the octopus escapee named Hank, voiced by Ed O'Neill, whose hidden care for Dory and her ultimate goals was expressed greatly through his brilliant character arc throughout the entire run time of the film.The animation - need I say - is produced by Pixar, therefore it looks incredible. Each and every fish (that matters) pops out on the screen exactly as the animators want them to. Each time the audience is supposed to see something important, we see it, thanks to the fantastic animation team working on Finding Dory. All of the colors magnificently stand out from the overall bland backgrounds, and make the film look astounding.My main complaint with the film is the pacing of timed events. Every once in awhile, the film finds itself standing still for a good few minutes, before it begins to pick up again. These stuck-in-the-mud moments are usually supposed to be emotional ones, which, I oddly didn't connect with too much, which is strange to say about a Pixar film (without 'Cars' in the title, at least). The pacing wasn't the greatest, and seemed to drag the film down a bit, which was disappointing.Another problem I found in Finding Dory was the elements it took from its predecessor, that being Finding Nemo (2003). Much like the 2010 film Toy Story 3, many elements depend on the nostalgia of the viewer. Being a child when Finding Nemo came out, I should've been struck with nostalgia when watching Finding Dory. However, I decided to take off my nostalgia goggles for this one, and was surprised by how much the film relies on the nostalgia of the audience. Although it isn't a huge issue, the similarities between this plot and Finding Nemo's stood out quite a bit.The last complaint I have with the film, which is a small one, is the lack of characters from the first film showing up in this one. We get to see a bit of Crush (Andrew Stanton) and his son Squirt (Bennett Dammann), Mr. Ray (Bob Peterson), and a glimpse of Gill (Willem Dafoe) and his friends, but no other original characters show up in Finding Dory. Personally, I would've liked to see Bruce and his shark friends, more of Gill, and even a bit more of Crush; his appearance was more of a cameo. The film spent too much time developing a multitude of new characters that it forgot to include the older ones, it seems.Overall, I did enjoy Finding Dory, it just wasn't as good as Finding Nemo, which is one of Pixar's best. I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoyed the first film, because you will appreciate it.
'FINDING DORY': Three and a Half Stars (Out of Five) The sequel to the blockbuster Pixar hit 'FINDING NEMO'. It once again stars the voice talents of Ellen DeGeneres and Albert Brooks. It was directed by Andrew Stanton and Angus MacLane; and it was written by Stanton, Bob Peterson and Victoria Strouse (Stanton also co-directed and co-wrote the original movie). The story, this time, revolves around the amnesiac Dory, as she goes on a quest to find her parents. I don't think it's as good a film as the original; or nearly as great as the best of Pixar. The film picks up shortly after the events of the original movie. Nemo (Hayden Rolence) is now safely, and happily, living with his father, Marlin (Brooks). Dory (DeGeneres) still lives with them as well, but she also still longs to reunite with her parents. After a sudden flashback, Dory decides to go on a quest to find them. Nemo and Marlin go with her.I think it's a little odd for the filmmakers to have made a sequel, to 'FINDING NEMO', that has such a little amount of Nemo in it. He's also voiced by a different actor (due to the fact that the original actor matured so much). Dory is an interesting, and entertaining, character though; and DeGeneres is the biggest star, of the original movie, to market the film as your lead with. So I understand Disney's (and Pixar's) financial motives. Even with these doubts, I still had high hopes. I was sadly disappointed. It is still a visually stunning, and funny, film though. But the story (and adventure of it) didn't intrigue me that much. I also was expecting a lot more heart.Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at: https://youtu.be/_3w7EWxV5vg
'Finding Nemo' is really one of Pixar's best efforts. So a followup to the 2003 undersea adventure would really set a lot of standard. For that, I'm proud to say that its sequel, 'Finding Dory', is not as bad as I expected it to be. In fact, it is actually great.Well, part of the skepticism I had for this followup to 'Nemo' is that it centers on the predecessor's instant scene stealer Dory. To admit, Ellen Degeneres truly made the lovable blue tang as an iconic character as she is now. And to turn the spotlight to a forgetful comic relief does show corporate cynicism for Pixar, as demonstrated by 'Cars 2'. At least that's my first reaction to a sequel to 'Nemo' that centers on Dory. More than thankfully, Dory makes up for another compelling adventure, with Marlin (a game Albert Brooks) and Nemo (Hayden Rolence), in search of her parents as she retrieves memory of them from her birthplace in a Morro Bay marine reserve. Kudos to Ellen for bringing heart to every funny, tearful and motivating moment.There are new characters along the adventure, like Destiny (an enthusiastic Kaitlin Olson) and Bailey (a clumsy Ty Burrell). But the definite breakout is Hank the octopus or septopus (a gallant Ed O'Neill), who provides an undeniable presence of a scarred but redeemed character. Though his back story is kind of vague (an octopus who wants to stay in captivity), the mollusk is more than interesting, and a great companion to Ellen's beloved blue tang. Just the animation of its design and movements is something Pixar has always stepped up to create.Always a Pixar standard is its quality animation as not only the ocean became the main attraction, but also the detail of the so-called 'jewel of Morro Bay, California'. Andrew Stanton and team are really aware of the environment they are in. Kind of reminds me of 'Jurassic World' of how life size the attraction is. Also, watch out for sudden twists and turns, just a showcase of how unique the movie is.Though this may not be as momentous as 'Finding Nemo', 'Finding Dory' is still a worthy continuation of the adventures of everybody's favorite clownfish and forgetful blue tang. Pixar finally gave us a fine sequel to their property. And I am sure to hold hopes for their next film'Cars 3'. Hmm.Ellen, you deserve the movie you took years of campaigning.
I've always said that I'm a sucker for a good animated Disney film. Not so much the social commentary films but the out and out kid friendly movies. When FINDING NEMO came out I didn't see it in the theater thinking it wasn't my kind of movie. I've grown more accepting of the computer animated films from Disney and Pixar. When I finally did see it I was stunned at the clarity of picture, the vast array of colors and how involved I became in the story. I'm happy to say that the sequel, FINDING DORY, lives up to that first films high standards.If you forgot who Dory was she was a blue fish with a problem of short term memory loss. She bumped into Marlin (Albert Brooks), Nemo's father, and ended up helping him rescue his son Nemo. The movie opens with us learning Dory's story, how she was a little girl and had a mother and father who loved her but who got lost from them. After searching for some time her path intersects with Marlin as we saw in the first film. It's now a year later and Dory lives with Marlin and Nemo and yes, still suffers from that short term memory loss. But something is happening.Dory begins to have flashes of her life before Marlin and Nemo, memories of her parents. She wants to find them and longs to see them but they're miles away. With a little help from Nemo she finally convinces Marlin, the ever worrisome homebody, to help her get to California where she thinks they live.Of course the usual happens with Marlin and Nemo getting separated from Dory once they arrive. Their stories run different paths with them nearly finding one another several times. The location that Dory recalls is a marine life park with various area to explore. Dory is caught up in the plastic loops of a six pack tossed in the sea and then rescued by workers from the park. She gets tagged to be shipped to Cleveland to their aquarium there and it seems all is lost.But then she gets help from a grouchy octopus named Hank (Ed O'Neill). He wants to leave the park and go on the truck to Cleveland and tells her to give him the tag she now has on her fin. She agrees if he will help her find her parents. Off the duo goes trying to find the right spot and Dory's folks. And it is the antics of not just Dory but of Hank who uses his ability to camouflage himself in some hilarious moments.While Dory is off with Hank, Marlin and Nemo get help from a pair of sunbathing sea lions on a rock outside of the park. Their adventure sets off with a whacked out bird picking them up in a bucket of water and trying to get them to the quarantine area where Dory would have been taken, of course unaware that she is in the midst of leaving there. Will they ever find one another? And more importantly will they find Dory's parents? Once again the movie offers us some amazing rich visuals to look at. All of the underwater scenes in the ocean are breathtaking, even if computer generated. The flow of images is so flawless that you'll forget it's animated at times. It is a glowing sea of color and movement that makes you wonder where to look next. Computer animation has grown leaps and bounds over the past few decades.But none of that would matter if there wasn't a story that was worth being interested in as well. The answer is yes, it does offer just such a story. The sense of loss, the fear of the unknown, the hope that Dory will find her parents still waiting for her has you cheering her on and rooting for her to overcome her short term memory loss enough to reach her home. Along the way you also begin to realize that while Dory may have her problems and a slight attention issue, she actually remembers more than she gives herself credit for.If you were ever lost as a child in a department store or grocery store then you can relate to the emotions of Dory as she tries to find her parents. It is a story that all children can relate to and the child within each of us can relate to as well. This movie entertains, captures your imagination and delights the eye from start to finish. You can't ask much more of a movie with the name Disney attached to it.
Finding Dory follows the events of 2003's Finding Nemo, where this time Dory goes on a journey in search of her lost parents, whom she forgot about until now. The movie on occasion made me laugh. It was funny from time to time, but not funny enough to be considered much of a comedy. I really hated how rushed this movie was. I thought the trailers seemed rushed with getting into the main plot, and I hoped the movie wouldn't be like that. And yet it was. Mere minutes into the movie Dory remembered her parents and was immediately swimming out after them. It was incredibly rushed, unlike it's predecessor, and came off incredibly forced. The movie tries to be funny and connected to it's prequel by referencing it a lot. Sometimes the references were subtle and fun, but most of the time it's just Marlon saying 'I have bad memories with that' instead of having actually well-thought out dialogue that directly connect the two movies. Marlon often came off forced because of this, like he existed for connection. Speaking of Marlon, I wish he and Nemo weren't in this movie. Dory's story was vastly more interesting, Marlon and Nemo just kind of showed up to take the audience out of Dory's story to show a much less interesting (or fun) story. I didn't care for their characters at all, and it seemed like they only existed in the movie because they were in the previous one. The movie, in terms of comedy presentation, became hopelessly forced more often than not. Finding Nemo never tread in totally serious waters, everything was fun. But there was a level of tension and seriousness to an otherwise lighthearted premise. Furthermore, it just tried to make everything flow together really naturally, and paced itself really well as a result. Finding Dory was filled with forced gimmicks and plot points that existed for the sake of a joke more than they did a part of the story. Nothing connected, and thus it became a very boring, unnatural mess where many jokes fell flat. The story as a whole just lacks the realism that the prequel had. When the characters went out of water, it was s big deal. It created tension for the characters. In this movie, it's just how most of the movie is spent. The vast majority is spent above water, wandering around an aquarium. That's not realistic, nor does it make any sense at all. Again, it forces it so hard. There were way too many people in this movie, and it just didn't work in a movie about fish. Also, this movie didn't need to happen. All loose ends were tied up nicely in Finding Nemo, so why did this need to exist? It's connection to the prequel is loose and unnatural, and it's just not nearly as engaging as a plot. It's a cash grab, and that's it. Disney was as into this movie as I was, it seems. Overall Finding Dory isn't a good time at the movies. The comedy is forced, the plot is forced, the setting is forced, the characters are boring and so is the movie as a whole. There really isn't a lot going for the movie, but as a whole I didn't really hate it. I just didn't enjoy it. In the end I definitely wouldn't recommend this movie. Pretend it doesn't exist, and just watch Finding Nemo.
'Finding Nemo' was a landmark, five-star Pixar film both in terms of visuals and locale (underwater world). 'Finding Dory' takes that winning formula, tweaks it just a bit, and produces another rollicking (if slightly less groundbreaking) undersea adventure.For a basic plot summary, 'Finding Dory' focuses on Dory (Ellen DeGeneres), the forgetful little blue tang fish. Early on in the film, Dory--now part of Marlin (Albert Brooks) & Nemo's (Hayden Rolence) family--remembers that she once had parents of her own, and thus the trio hitch a ride with Crush (Andrew Stanton) for the currents of California. Arriving at a Sea World-esque aquatic park, Dory is helped by a number of newcomers to the franchise, such as Hank the octopus (Ed O'Neil), Destiny the whale shark (Kaitlin Olson), and Bailey the Beluga whale (Ty Burrell).Basically, 'Finding Dory' takes the same basic plot formula (rescue adventure) of 'Finding Nemo' and just breathes some new life/characters into it. This approach doesn't really break much new ground, but perhaps such a formula doesn't need to be 'messed with'. I was chuckling at many jokes throughout (all the new characters fit in nicely), and found myself mostly caught up in the sense of adventure.Probably the most interesting choice of the entire experience was Disney/Pixar's focus on Dory's 'disability' (short-term memory loss). For the most part, that is where the emotion of the film comes from...seeing Dory overcome her weaknesses and even turn them into strengths. Whereas in the first film Dory was pretty much played as just the comic relief, this time her personal struggles comprise the main narrative structure of the entire flick.Why not the full five stars? Simply put: because Toy Story 2 was better than Toy Story. Somehow, someway, Disney/Pixar managed to have that sequel transcend its spectacular original, and that didn't necessarily happen here. My final star ranking would be 4.5/5.0, if able.Overall, though, I very much enjoyed the experience of watching 'Finding Dory'. It's an amazing experience to look around the theater and see people of all ages enjoying the same film. I give Disney/Pixar a lot of credit for that. If you were swept away by 'Finding Nemo', you'll get the same kind of adventure/comedy in 'Finding Dory'.
Upon its announcement, this sequel to the 2003 bonafide classic was met with apprehension. Nevertheless, with the return of Ellen Degeneres as the titular blue tang and Albert Brooks as worried father Marlin, plus the introduction of Modern Family pair Ed O'Neill and Ty Burrell, all helmed by a team featuring the likes of Wall·E/A Bug's Life director Andrew Stanton, it seems hard to mess up. The good news is they don't. A sequel - unless the tone is drastically different, like Cameron's 1986 Aliens to Ridley Scott's 1979 Alien - is always going to feel like a retread of its predecessor, and if it suffers from the condition of sequelitis, then it will make everything bigger and less interesting. Finding Dory, however, like the Toy Story sequels, is not a shameless cash- in but rather an appropriate companion piece to Finding Nemo. Before the film begins there is a Pixar short as befits tradition, entitled Piper. This shares there oceanic themes of Dory, and is gorgeously animated, with some cute visuals, but it's certainly not one to remember. At its heart the story of Finding Dory is a deeply tragic one, with an introduction which showcases a heart-meltingly cute baby Dory losing her family in unexplained circumstances and traversing the ocean in a wretched, barely remembered state before her memory is finally jogged one year after after helping to rescue Nemo, and the team set off on an adventure to California to find her parents. What unfolds is nothing less than classic Pixar. The humour is as good as it's ever been in a Pixar feature - the gags are perhaps better than in any other Pixar film, with the standouts Idris Elba as a delightfully lazy sea lion, O'Neill's grouchy octopus (well, septopus), Burrell's clueless beluga having trouble utilising his echolocation, and a silent bird named Becca. The extraordinary setting is a step up from dentist's office in Nemo, and the animation is the very definition of dazzling and flawless - especially during one of the best scenes, where a marine life centre touch pool is re-imagined as a terrifying slaughter ground which evokes the deadly playtime of Toy Story 3's Caterpillar Room. So, technically jaw-dropping, check. Fantastic humour suitable for children and adults, check. Unexpected maturity and emotional intelligence, check. Impressive voice cast, check. Sounds like a classic Pixar film! On the subject of the voice cast, Degeneres truly excels. Her passion for the character is evident, and she expertly combines the naïve, innocent and cute humour of Nemo's Dory with her new tragic backstory. As she pieces together her past from fragments of half-remembered memory, it almost begins to feel like Memento - a refreshingly different style amidst the rest of the film. Another refreshing thing is the lack of villain - like in Inside Out - which is a good recent trend in films that allows for a more character and plot based story that doesn't get bogged down in clichés. There third act is relatively a little weaker - with the notable exception of a few scenes - yet this does not stop Finding Dory from ranking amongst several of Pixar's greats. It is occasionally a little too similar to Nemo, especially during lost fish scenarios, so it's not quite amongst the very top tier of the likes of its predecessor, the Toy Story trilogy, Inside Out or The Incredibles, yet it's still a wonderful film and a must-watch for any Pixar fan (which honestly is any fan of film). 83/100.
the story seems OK but the way it progresses seems difficult to digest at times, the animation is better than finding nemo. an octopus driving a truck is just too much to handle. the little Dory is adorable with her voice, it is quite an emotional ride for the tang fish. marlin and nemo did excellent work searching her but definitely less fun than first part. things seem difficult to connect at times between what Dory wants and whats actually happening on the screen. doesn't engage audience as in the first part, the intense emotional engagement is clearly missing from this movie.some scenes seem not required at all and could have done without them easily. overall don't expect to be thrilled as finding nemo. i give it 6/10
I knew to go into this film with realistic expectations. For starters, I loved the short as usual-pixar knows the right formula for these well. Piper was a perfect way to get the audience ready for the actual movie. The movie begins with the audience being introduced to Young Dory- who was very cute and it was nice to get some background on her character. Sadly though, none of the new characters seemed all that interesting. The plot was predictable and it did not hold the magic of the first one as well. Love Ellen Degeneres as always in this role, and overall it was a good movie for the summer, it will not go down as one of pixar's better movies though.
'Finding Dory' is the both long-awaited sequel to 'Finding Nemo', one of the most beloved animated films of all time, and the latest entry to Pixar's archive of (mostly) stellar movies. Their work has almost become its own genre, with many critics referring to something as 'Pixar-esque' as a high compliment, and has frequently set the bar in terms of quality. They have had a bit of a slump recently, even last year's 'The Good Dinosaur' fell short of the studio's own standard. Luckily, 'Finding Dory' is a competent and enjoyable picture with some fantastic animation and voice work. It doesn't come close the the quality of its predecessor, but it's still good and fun to watch throughout.The plot initially seems like a rehash of the first, and becomes generic after a fairly compelling opening. The first act goes on like this, with all of the necessary story beats being hit in a conventional way. I wasn't exactly removed from the picture, but I felt a disconnect as I was painfully aware of the film itself whilst trying to be sucked into the world it created. Luckily, this doesn't last long as after the familiar first act the film kicks into gear with the second. After an out-of-place chase scene, the titular Blue Tang stumbles across a marine-life rescue centre; this is where the majority of the flick takes place, and also where it's at its most interesting. I found this act engaging, with the scenario making for some unique set-pieces and additional characters. By taking the action out of the ocean, the team at Pixar were able to mould a different experience from 'Finding Nemo'. It is when the movie differs from expectation that it is at its best, and I became invested in it to the point where the conventional plot-points weren't as noticeable. The final act is a little far-fetched, but features a lot of fast-paced action with slapstick peppered throughout. It is enjoyable but a little brash and seemingly at odds with the film before it. The main issue with the plot arises because of one of its key components. There is an inherent frustration present due to Dory's condition, a character trait which also means that there is a reliance on coincidence and repetition. For me, some of the 'fun' from the forgetting isn't there as I quickly found the joke tiring. But it is handled well on the whole, with sincere moments sprinkled throughout that help keep the film and its themes authentic.The writing here is very good, Andrew Stanton and Victoria Strouse are great at making these talking fish relatable and likable. Every aquatic animal is anthropomorphised excellently, with small quirky interactions working best. There's snappy banter between couples on more than one occasion, and the smaller roles often provide some of the most memorable moments. It is refreshing to find a script that's consistently well-written, each role is treated with the same amount of care - no matter how small. The voice work is also exceptional. Each cast member gives a believable and natural performance, which - paired with the great writing and animation - makes every character feel rounded and real. Ellen DeGeneres is really good as the lead, giving an emotive and personal performance which adds a level of credibility. Albert Brookes, Ed O'Neill, Ty Burrell and Kaitlin Olson are marvellous in supporting roles. O'Neill especially breathes life into an interesting character that frequently plays to his vocal strengths. Idris Elba, Dominic West, Eugine Levy and Diane Keaton all play smaller parts but their presences are all keenly felt.Animation-wise, the movie is sublime. The ocean looks like the ocean, both from in its depth and above its surface. I can't emphasis how nice the water looks, it's realistic - in both its viscosity and the way it interacts with the environment - but still suits the cartoon- esque aesthetic. The lighting is really great too. The characters are very well realised, with the lip-syncing looking perfect and the movements complex. The twelve principles are clearly on display, with timing and exaggeration being especially prevalent. I like the design of all of the characters, the returning ones have never looked better. There are more people on display this time, and they are brought to life well; they're probably some of the best humans in a Pixar film, looking stylalised yet refined. In terms of the music, Thomas Newman delivers a welcome and ranged film-score that's unfortunately rather forgettable. It works in the moment, always complementing what's on screen, but sums up to some fairly nondescript music that doesn't rank very high among his prior work.Overall, 'Finding Dory' is a well animated and voice acted film that's genuine; it has been expertly and lovingly crafted. Its plot takes a while to get going, is a little unbelievable and isn't too funny but this is still a worthy sequel to 'Finding Nemo' that is never quite as good but tries its best: 7/10
Despite being 13 years since finding nemo was released in 2003, the events of this film take place one year later. The lovable but forgetful dory starts to remember her past including the family she forgot about. What i loved about dory was how the flashback intertwined with something she was remembering in the present. Alexander Gould who portrayed nemo in the original is replaced by Hayden roylance due to outgrowing the role but he does have a cameo as a different character. While some may be divided over the film but those that grew up watching the original will feel nostalgic. I would say it was one of Disney better films and certainly worth the wait.
***There are some spoiler territories in this review and I will give out a warning. Otherwise enjoy the review***There are a lot of mixed reviews about Finding Dory. I just saw the movie from the theaters and I too have mixed feelings about the movie. I do have to say, as a kid's movie, and me having a significant age difference from the target audience, the movie was quite entertaining that's for sure. There were some parts where I felt the movie could've done better and some parts that I thought the movie did well. Finding Dory is where Dory remembers a memory of her parents and decides to go out and find them along with Marlin and Nemo. She accidentally ends up at a Marine Life Institute instead and little by little she realizes her parents was at the institute. To start off, the acting in this movie was pretty good. Albert Brooks as Marlin was quite good but nothing too flashy, while Hayden Rolence as Nemo delivers the role quite well. The acting was believable between the two and nothing of them got me out of the movie. Ellen DeGeneres as Dory was good. She delivered a vast image of emotions out the movie and her voice acting was believable. The supporting characters such as Ed O'Neil as Hank, Kaitlin Olsen as Destiny, and Ty Burrell as Bailey really helped constructing the movie. None of the supporting characters felt forced and the dialogue between Ty Burrell and Kaitlin Olsen was hilarious. The comedy of this movie however was more focused on the dialogue rather than visuals. Not that I have a problem with this, its just that younger audience members might not understand the comedy of this movie as much as the older audience members do. The movie really focuses on Dory's short term memory loss this time and sometimes uses this as an excuse for plot convenience. At times if felt too repetitive and really forced, and Dory's flashbacks really seemed more as a exposition story teller more than a actual visual relationship.SPOILER WARNING!Another problem I had with this movie was the reveal of Dory's parents, Dory finds her parents right outside the walls of the institution, which is just plain bulls*it because at at the first quarter of the movie, it was clearly shown that Dory, Marlin and Nemo was outside the walls of the institution themselves, and the fact that neither of them bumped into each other is just for the remainder of 1:15. And sure, hardcore movie fans can say that Jenny and Charlie could just be looking for shells and s*it but Dory was clearly yelling 'HELLO' like a couple of times, which Dory's parents should've heard her screaming and shouting 'HELLO.' I also felt that the ending could've been more dramatic and heartfelt if Dory just imagined her parents being there, sort of like ghosts for that matter. I think if the movie actually do that then it can really show the audience the passion and love that Dory holds so dearly onto about her parents. END OF SPOILER TALKThe message of this movie really was undemanding and wasn't clearly shown. Before I watched the movie, I felt that the movie goers were trying to show the audience the truth and the reality of aquariums and marine life institutions and how horrible it is from the fish's perspective but that really wasn't the case in the actual film, and if it was then it wasn't shown clearly. If the movie had gone to that approach more attentively than I might have more positive feelings about the film. FINAL VERDICT: 7.8/10 The movie was fun to watch but there some ups and downs here and there. Check it out for yourself if you haven't already. I recommend this movie to all audiences.
Given how great Finding Nemo was, my expectations were really high for this film. When I saw Finding Nemo in the theaters, I was just blown away. While I originally walked out of the theater disappointed and thinking my hopes were simply too high, I realized at home that Pixar has delivered plenty of times in the past (i.e. Toy Story sequels). Finding Dory is just not as good as the original. It is a decent movie, but easily forgettable.Early on in the movie, much of the story seems far too familiar. We see Nemo's coral reef, a journey with the turtle across the ocean, and a chase scene by a scary sea monster again. It is all stuff we have seen before, which made for a slow start. When the movie arrives at the aquarium, we finally see something new, but it is only mildly entertaining. At that point Dory's story-line really takes off, which I found to be really sad and overly serious. In the original movie, Dory was quirky, and full of heart and sweetness; she almost personified optimism. Her character does not change in this movie, but the directors' approach toward her mental affliction does. What was a silly but funny affliction in the first movie is now treated as a serious disability. We now see Dory and the characters around her sad, confused, lost, and really scared most of the time. I completely understand what they were going for in this film, especially for families dealing with special needs family members. At the same time, this movie never makes the strong emotional impacts of many other Pixar films. It's more of a downer than a tearjerker.Finding Dory still has enough working in its favor to be entertaining. My kids walked out decently satisfied, but I did notice some fidgety behavior midway through the movie. Ultimately, the movie is okay, but it is not a Pixar classic.
This movie's marquee was that it was one of the few sequels that was, 'better than the original.' I loved it, but *spoiler alert* - it wasn't.Finding Dory picks up a year after the original film and gets to the point quickly! Through a series of events, Dory remembers that she has a mom and a dad and that they live in Morrow Bay, CA. Marlin and Nemo decide to help her and voila, we have our premise.The movie wastes no time as Marlin, Dory, and Nemo meet up with the turtles and ride the East Australian Current presumably west where they land in the murky, garbage and kelp filled Californian coast. I won't give any more spoilers, but I will say that the trio quickly meets up with a villain who is unfortunately not as interesting as Bruce the white shark.Without giving the plot away, I will say that the new supporting characters introduced in Finding Dory are just not quite as lovable, memorable, or funny as Gil and the tank gang. The slapstick humor was there and there are absolutely some laugh out loud moments throughout the movie! My daughter and I were cracking up! The reason 'Finding Nemo' was so darn successful was because of how simple it was. A neurotic, scared of his own shadow type of fish (Marlin) is forced into crazy scenarios because of Dory's reckless abandon and because the love of his son keeps him going. You feel the emotional attachment from the first minute the movie starts. Unfortunately, 'Finding Dory,' throws a ton of crazy scenarios at you without establishing a super strong emotional bond with the audience. While it makes for a good movie, it's not NEXT LEVEL good like 'Finding Nemo' is. In short, Dory is a much more interesting supporting character than lead character (in my humble opinion). It's very hard to take her seriously with the whole short term memory loss thing!Please don't mistake me for one of those guys who thinks the originals are always the best, I really don't think that way (Empire Strikes Back is the best!), but to me a superior sequel needs to both continue and improve upon the best aspects of the original which this movie did not do. Also, please don't view this as a negative review! I still loved this movie and will definitely be purchasing it when it comes out on DVD!!
Finding Dory (2016) *** (out of 4)Delightful sequel to FINDING NEMO has Dory remembering her childhood and the fact that she got lost from her parents. With the help of Marlin and Nemo she sets out to find them.FINDING DORY isn't nearly as good as the first film but there are certainly enough cute moments to make it worth sitting through. I'm sure kids will be blown away and enjoy every minute but the adults might be feeling some deja va as we've basically got the same story as the first one and not nearly as many memorable characters. In fact, I'd say the weakest thing about this film is the story, which is just basically a rehash of the first and the adventure from start to finish isn't nearly as good.With that being said, there's no doubt that Pixar has delivered another winner as once again a lot of credit has to go to the animators. It's really amazing to see how far the animation has grown since TOY STORY and it looks even more marvelous here. The graphics in the animation are just amazing to look at and the scenes in the ocean at the start really make you feel as if you're right there splashing around.More credit has to go to the vocal talent as well as Ellen DeGeneres, Albert Brooks and Hayden Rolence are all very good as Dory, Marlin and Nemo. You've also got a nice turn by Ed O'Neill as Hank and Diane Keaton as Jenny. There are some nice comic moments involving the sea lions but I must admit that I thought the film lost some steam once we hit the Marine Life Institute. Some of the adventure is lost here and it just can't compete with that in the original movie.
The real beauty in Pixar's FINDING DORY lies beneath the elaborate tapestry of immersive adventures, played in plethoraic array of comic efforts pulled off by what could be now one of the most sprightly animated characters to ever grace the big screen. Dory's adventures might singularly win hearts through laughs, but there's a bracing sentiment lurking at the depths of its story that can never be less of a heart-rending emotional gem.Coming thirteen years after the critical and commercial success of its predecessor, 'Finding Nemo', 'Dory' displays a zealous effort to replicate a similar success by pulling off an essentially similar drama. Only this time, Dory (Ellen deGeneres), whose colossal allure generated much of the overall comic charm in 'Finding Nemo', is the one trying to find her way home. Her journey is depicted in equally vivid, albeit chaotic, adventures that don't only concern about her finding her way back to her family, but more thematically appropriate, about her attempt for self-discovery. In the opening sequence, the sentimental heft of her story is already gaining some volume, but what comes next, no matter how engagingly funny, provides an even more crippling notions of friendship, courage, trust, and family.Much of the film's comic glamor rests on Dory's forgetfulness, itself, but the incredible charm from new and returning characters, can't be counted out, easily. The biggest surprise is Hank (Ed O'Neill), a cranky anti-social octopus, whose chameleon like ability, could actually be Dory's brightest chance in getting back to her family. Marlin (Albert Brooks), and Nemo (Hayden Rolence) are now mostly relegated to the sidelines, but other memorable characters are put in their places to deliver equally indispensible appeal.In the end, what the film accomplishes could not be even close to what it aspires to be. There is a big part of its charm that doesn't quite satisfy its own ambitions, but what comes brimming beyond such effort can never be rudimentary. 'Finding is Dory' never able to deliver a piece of thematic complexity, but the depth it is able to dig, is utterly unforgettable.
This movie was great - a nice story that's more nerve-wracking than the first one, with Dory trying to find her parents and her friends trying to find - and save - her.The animation style is the same, but the graphics have improved and it looks really nice.There were funny moments that were hilarious and also some moments of sadness for Dory. And to see these characters again was enjoyable.If you haven't watched the first film, do it before you watch this.Finding Dory is great, just as good as the first, with some really tense, fun moments, and great humor.
The long-awaited sequel to Pixar's 2003 classic, 'Finding Nemo' has finally arrived. Did Finding Nemo really need a sequel? Probably not. But 'Finding Dory' deftly manages to breathe new life to a few recurring characters, while also introducing a school of lively newcomers as well. Directed by Andrew Stanton, once again. The film centers around, everyone's favorite forgetful blue tang, Dory (Voiced by Ellen DeGeneres) on her quest to find her parents. This film, in many ways, is about Dory trying to figure out who she is and restore her memory. So, the title does still fit in that finding her is the plot of the film, just not physically like the previous film. Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, the first few sequences in the movie was a little bit boring, and somewhat repetitive. It really didn't get good, until Dory starts to recall memories of her long-lost family, being in the 'the jewel of Morro Bay, California'. It's here, where the movie become somewhat, funny, new and memorable, when the tone of the film, change from 'hero journey' ocean life edition, similar to 1995's 'Toy Story' to action pack, aquatic search and rescue, escape mission at a local aquarium, similar to 1999 & 2010's 'Toy Story 2 & 3'. I get how the movie was trying to say, with this. When the first movie was released, there was a spike in demand for tropical aquarium fish. This not only harmed wild populations, but many of the fish purchased died quickly due to improper care. This time around, Pixar may directly tell audiences that capturing wild fishes is wrong, and should, only be caught, if they require a lot of care, and they should be, released, as soon as they get better. In many ways, the filmmakers were following, the movement that 2013's documentary, 'Blackfish', set up for the care of aquatic life. The only problem with this plot, is how the fishes were going to get around. It's not, like they can jump from tank to tank. Plus, some of that water is not warm water or saltwater. It would literally, kill, the tropical fishes. Like the first movie, a number of unforgettable quirky side characters serves as tools or 'Ex Machina' to help them, on their way through some excessive obstacles. This includes, fun supporting characters, such as escape-artist, Hank the Octopus (Voiced by Ed O'Neill), Destiny the near-sighted, whale shark (Voiced by Kaitlin Olson), a bunch of laidback sea lions, Fluke & Rudder (Voiced by Idris Elba & Dominic West) and Bailey, the beluga whale (Voiced by Ty Burrell). This might be call, nitpicking, but, I surprise, how helpful, these creatures, are, to the fishes, they barely know. Wouldn't you think, that the seals, whales, and sharks would eat the fishes? Did they really had nothing else to do, than to help Dory get home? Also, like many octopi, Hank can survive for a short time outside of water, so long as he remains moist, but not for the extended periods shown in the film. That said, it's O'Neill's character who really steals the show. In a lot of ways, he fills for Albert Brooks's Marlin's role as the straight man, in service of Dory's comic. In many ways, I really didn't think, the original recurring characters of Nemo (Voiced by Hayden Rolence) and Marlin was even needed, as they really didn't add, much to the plot. Still, it was kinda cool to find out, that Alexander Gould (Nemo's original voice actor) provides the voice of the truck driver. Anyways, the new voice-actors here, really did their jobs, very well. As much, as I love them; my favorite has to be Sigourney Weaver, playing as herself. Whenever, you hear, her voice. It's like, hearing the voice of God. About the main lead, Ellen Degeneres, she's OK. However, her character comes across, a little more annoying, here than the original movie. Not only that, but her short-term memory loss in this film, is a little bit, too selection and random. I really don't believe, that's how anterograde amnesia, works, writers. It come across as fake and too unrealistic. It's like, Dory is being a huge malinger. Keep in mind, that all of those flashbacks, were a little distracting as well. As much, as I love Baby Dory, I really didn't like, how it cut back to the past, from the present, so much. It really disrupt the flow of the film and grew tedious as the movie went on. It also took away, so much of the mystery. In my opinion, I think the movie would had been, more emotional, if we didn't know, what happen to her parents. It might sound wrong, but I was really hoping, they were indeed gone like Marlin, said. It would be tragic, but sometimes, a message like that, need to be, said. Anyways, I though the whole car chase and reunited scene was a bit of a cop out, and little too over the top. Also, I did like the post-credit after scene. Still, this begs a Fridge Logic, though. How did they survive so long inside bags without food or a renewable source of oxygen? Despite that, of course, it goes without saying that Finding Dory is visually spectacular. Just when you thought the CGI couldn't look any better, Pixar's team went and raised the bar again with their latest offering. Plus, like the first movie, it has a great message about having to take chances and do something that we never thought we would be able to do. Also, just because someone has a disability doesn't mean they are a liability, and we should give them a chance and support them in their attempts to overcome their obstacles, not hold them back from doing so. In other words: keep on swimming. Overall: Finding Dory has big laughs and an even bigger heart. Very touching. A must watch. Highly recommended.
In 2003, 'Finding Nemo' became a legendary film as it would soon become the best selling DVD of all time! That would be a tough act to follow, right? Luckily, they made a sequel just as awesome. I am so glad that Pixar is more like 'Inside Out' this time instead of 'The Good Dinosaur'. Interestingly enough, the movie isn't really about finding Dory, but about finding Dory's parents. It helps that this is probably the best animation that Pixar has ever given us. I was afraid that this movie was going to just be a reprise of the original. I was pleasantly surprised to find out it really did use all new stuff.The best part is how I really felt for Dory in this. I wanted her to be happy! I wanted her to find her parents! We get a few other characters from the first movie, but only in cameos. It helps that there are tons of funny moments and great new characters. Even the credits build up to the rising of the surface. In the first movie, it seemed to show the humans as villains. I found this to be an improvement as it instead showed the humans as sincerely wanting to help the fish. It just wasn't quite in the right way. I'm really tired of PETA's influence. All the characters are lots of fun, but Dory herself truly steals the show, as expected. It was just a movie where you had to see what would happen next. You want it to go on as long as possible but not to the point where they would run out of ideas. And they don't! ****
After catching the delightful The Secret Life of Pets on DVD,I decided to take a look at what other animated titles were coming to disc over the Christmas season. Being impressed by Pixar's last few productions,I was thrilled to discover that there follow-up to Finding Nemo has just come out,which led to me diving in the ocean to find Dory.The plot:Since childhood Dory has suffered from short-term memory loss.In childhood,Dory took a wrong turn in the sea and got separated from her parents,whose names and faces she can't remember. After helping him to find his son Nemo,Dory has become friends with his dad Marlin.During a school trip,Dory is hit by waves of childhood memories,which include the names and faces of her mum and dad.Seeing Dory swim halfway round the world to locate her family,Marlin and Nemo decide to go and find Dory.View on the film:Vocally campaigning for a sequel, Ellen DeGeneres gives a fantastic performance as Dory,whose child-like sense of awe DeGeneres expresses with a newly found (for Dory) emotional desire in her care-free life. Reuniting with DeGeneres, Albert Brooks gives a warm world-weary performance as Marlin,as Al Bundy himself Ed O'Neill gets his tentacles round every hilarious one liners as octopus Hank.Meeting Dory and co again after nine years,the screenplay by co- writers/(along with Bob Peterson & Victoria Strouse) directors Andrew Stanton and Angus MacLane masterfully build on everything that has made Finding Nemo a classic. Retaining a wicked comedic streak which glides as Dory's short term memory leads to Adventure movie leaps being taken in the wild blue yonder,the writers paint Dory's fins with an incredibly touching emotional depth,as brief flashbacks smartly give the viewer the chance to see the life Dory now wishes she had. Creating a new world under the sea,directors Stanton and MacLane give each aspect of sea life its own incredibly distinctive appearance,from the ocean being filled with a van from Toy Story,to Dory's former home covering the screen in waves of lush,primary coloured fish. Unleashing a stunning tracking shoot that goes between the fishes,the directors keep up with Dory's search in expertly delivered wide crane shots,as Dory finds herself.
What is wrong with people today? Do you understand anything about movies at all? If you gave, or about to give Finding Dory anything below 6 stars ( even 6 is too low ) then you should probably never see a movie again. I went to see this with my girlfriend today and we both absolutely adored every bit of it - it was cute, funny, touching and beautifully animated - the details were astonishing, interesting characters and breath holding environments. The story itself was excellent - although many people might not realise that there is much more to it than Marlin and Nemo finding Dory - It's about Dory finding Dory - finding who she truly is - finding her parents but also herself through memories and old friends. I can not begin to describe how much it frustrates me seeing people being so foolish and blind - I bet your children understand movies better than you.I can not wait to own this on Blu-Ray and am giving it 10 truly deserved stars.
Boy, Pixar sure needed this one. After mostly marginal efforts since 2010's Toy Story 3, they had to deliver something to raise our expectations back up. Something undeniable. This sequel to 2003's Finding Nemo acts as an origins story for everyone's favorite absent- minded fish, Dory. It shows her as a cute little baby, stumbling over her words and innocently gazing into her parents' eyes. Then, one day, her short-term memory loss gets the best of her and she loses her family, unable to remember how.While most animated films abandon the cute, young version of the main character early on in the film, Finding Dory finds a way to utilize it throughout the whole thing, in the form of of Dory's flashbacks.It's not necessarily as phenomenal as its predecessor, but Finding Dory is definitely a fantastic movie! We get some new characters who are just as hilarious as the ones from the last-- including two British sea lions who won't allow Gerald to sit on their rock.It's the funniest Pixar film since Toy Story 3. Some jokes had me laughing long after the credits rolled.The one and only things that really bothers me are the one or two contrived plot devices. In a deus ex machina fashion, the film takes minor liberties with echolocation and features a ridiculous scene where an octopus drives a truck. But I guess, in Pixar's world, where even toys can talk, anything is possible. But the studio has always been good about walking the line between realistic and impossible--even amidst their own well-crafted impossible universes. But the octopus car sequence throws all that out the window. And it's kinda silly. Your kids will get a kick out of it though.Still, Finding Dory is something to behold. It's so enjoyable and packed with unforced emotion and unique outlooks on mental handicaps, that we can shrug off even the largest of its minor pitfalls. You can only quibble so much before you realize that the pros far outweigh the cons. To the point where you just can't deny how good it is. it's undeniable.Twizard Rating: 98
Everything about this movie was delightful and truly was a treat for the whole family. Just do your best to not suffer from short term memory loss and follow the sea shells or the roads (if you live above sea level) back home after it's over. I have noticed some overtones that might offend people in other recent Disney movies but I really don't think there was an offensive thing in this entire movie and it will tug at your heart strings as well. Pixar brings you back to the magical underwater world that Finding Nemo was lost in. Pixar usually knocks them out of the park and they definitely did a great job with this flick too! So go grab a friend or the entire family and come out and see Finding Dory!
The friendly-but-forgetful blue tang fish begins a search for her long-lost parents, and everyone learns a few things about the real meaning of family along the way. Finding Dory is written and co-directed by Andrew Stanton, returning to Pixar after the live-action fiasco of John Carter. Pixar movies have been so consistently good for so long now that they carry the burden of infinite expectations. Anything less than a masterpiece is eventually a disappointment. That's why Finding Dory is fine. It's not Toy Story, The Incredible, Finding Nemo or even Inside Out. But it's a perfectly enjoyable family film, a little bit like what we got when I was younger – back in the 90s, Disney used to ship straight to DVD/VHS those Lion King spin-offs. Unfortunately, you also feel a sense of déjà vu. Dory's quest to be reunited with her parents is more or less the same exact fate that a little clown fish named Nemo.Dory, that adorable, excited blue tang fish, suffers from short-term memory loss. The slightest distraction or break in concentration wipes her mind clean. The creators have done something better: they figured out how to take an already perfect character and deepen her in an exquisitely satisfying way. In a flash, a character with a singular funny trait comes at us in a whole new way. She's no longer a (daffy) amnesiac. She's a child fish with a serious disability.There's real emotion. You feel every (ounce) of Dory's panic and her parents' desperation – something that any father or mother who's ever taken their eyes off of their children in a supermarket can identify with (I assume). On her own Dory grows up and matures into the impressible, caffeinated stammering of Ellen DeGeneres – who is the heart and soul of the movie. Like Robin Williams before her in Aladdin, Ellen DeGeneres has this gift as a comedian to keep the film moving and speeding along. Dory's glory is that her amnesia makes her completely responsive to life. This film eventually is about how the past, for her, isn't really so past. It's just the ability to remember life as we're living it, one moment at a time. As surely as the death of Bambi's mother, the premises of this movie rips a small emotional hole in the audience's heart. One of this film most important messages is how resonant Dory will be for parents of children with disabilities. To them, life can feel like a lonely struggle where anxiety constantly affects their state of mind. If you are invested hard enough, the film's message to these parents is: you are not alone! Dory's failing memory may be a handicap, but it's also the key to her resilience. Finally, this movie like many before it invites you to dive in with your eyes, which is why these movies are submersive daydreams for children. Who needs 3D glasses? Even if you – like me – happen to see this film in 2D, just about every shot in it pops out at you with beauty.Overall through her journey Dory learns to remember what life is all about. This film doesn't quite fit in the top drawer as it lacks that full-on audacity of imagination. Yet, it has so much soul and heart-of-the-ocean visual poetry that some of us will cherish it as a classic.
This movie is adorable! I grew up with Nemo so having Dory was a chance to feel like a kid again! The movie was funny, adventure filled, and like most Pixar movies, it was emotional. I found Dory's story being brought to live perfect for this sequel.
Pixar is amazing. First of all.Secondly, the cute babyish face of the little Dory to go with the cuddly equally voice of the baby Dory was just way too a(dory)ble.And then Pixar went God mode into flashbacks of fast cuts of memories of Dory.But then they frikkin lost it.Ellen DeGeneres has a way distinctive voice. Admittedly I am not the slightest fan of this person, but the thing is I want to go and watch movie to suspend disbelief. Not be frikkin reminded of man- girl Ellen every time I see a babyish animation. Why the **** does Hollywood think it is okay just because you are an A-list celebrity you deserve to be anchored into a feature voices in cartoons and animations?Same with Eddie Murphy's voice in Shrek. *Cue haters saying I am homophobic and racist*That's not the point at all. Hollywood is just playing favorites by cherrypicking the people they like automatically thinking since they made it big in one department they will automatically be stellar in other department.Pixar. Disney. Your job is to create. Read my opening paras about the positivity. Stick to that. Stick to creating art, instead of prostituting your soul to the devil.Thank you.
A movie about a fish who has short-term memory loss. A sequel to an amazing movie. On paper it's a great idea. In reality, it's 97minutes of my life that I'm never going to get back. The movies starts off with a little recap of what happened so far, so even if you haven't seen Nemo, you'll still understand. Sadly I think those might be the only people who might actually like this movie. For me it looked like 'Here's everything we did in Finding Nemo, we just put Dory where Nemo used to be' change a few locations, and we're done. sadly that's not the end of it, The same joke over and over. After 10 times it just isn't funny anymore. This movie is predictable and at moments downright boring. I expected more. If you haven't seen it, don't. Just put on Finding Nemo and save yourself a lot of frustration. I rated this movie 3* because of how good the original was. the movie itself is 1*, and that's kind. Right now I wish I was Dory, then I would forget this in about 90 seconds.... Sadly, I have to live with the memory of a movie that is substandard.
Finding Dory is not only a gorgeous-looking animated film, but a really family fun adventure. It's cheeky, funny, cute, naughty, crazy and heart-warming. It is not specially simple or over the top, and settles in a happy medium that will please kids and a adults alike. Although this is a sequel to Finding Nemo, the story feels like a film on its own, and while some of the events and characters in the first film appear also here, Finding Dory would still be a great film even if the first movie had never been made.Finding Dory is not a film about being lost, is a film a about finding who you are and finding home. It sends a message that your family is not always just your natural family, but those who include you in their family, help and love you when you don't have anybody else and you are most vulnerable.The story also sends a very positive message to any kid who has a disability, learning problem, or is just different. Dory has a short memory span, yet that problem makes her take decisions rapidly and be fearless and resolute, lets her evaluate any situation rapidly and make the best of it; Dory needs of other people, but she is so devoted and caring, that anybody wants to help her when she's in need. The analogy for those kids who are different is wonderful -- those things that seem to be a shortcoming and make you different, might end being the source of your greatness, helping you develop great qualities, and make of you an unique lovable individual. No animated movie can pass the adults' test without having great characters and great voices. This is the case here. The characters are varied, funny, have distinct personalities, and the actors lending their voices to them do a great job at infusing them with life and soul. I enjoyed Ellen being Dory. She did a great job at infusing Dory with that charm and soul the character needs. Besides, Ellen's natural voice has those things that are quintessential Dory: naughtiness, innocence, excitement and child-like tones. I found baby Dory absolutely adorable and wonderful. Once Dory becomes an adult and Ellen's voice is more fully there, I couldn't but hear Ellen, not always Dory. I would have liked her voice to be a bit more twinkled or morphed so as to allow Dory to take Ellen over, if you know what I mean.My main criticism to the film is perhaps the fact that the story becomes inorganic when we see an octopus driving a van and a fish reading signs and driving signs. Not that I didn't enjoy it, but I thought that somewhat didn't glue well with the rest of the film.The film comes together with the short film Pipper, which I reviewed elsewhere, and adorable addition to a great combo.Most enjoyable.
There must be something in the water at Pixar! After their 2003 triumph Finding Nemo, Pixar continued the famous aquatic trios' adventure in the sequel, Finding Dory. Pixar uses their ability to create realistic animation mixed with the voices of many famous actors to hold their spot at the top of the cartoon universe. In this similar but different sequel, Nemo's heroine Dory (Ellen DeGeneres) a fun, lovable, but often forgetful fish has an adventure of her own. Dory suffers from short-term memory loss, but she starts to have short flashbacks of where she came from. As she ventures to find her family, Dory is joined by Marlin (Albert Brooks), Nemo (Hayden Rolence) and Pixar's newest eight-legged hero, an octopus named Hank (Ed O'Neil) who helps her in many tight spots along the journey. She is also reunited and helped by some of her old childhood friends along the way. As far as sequels go, the plot to Finding Dory is far too similar to Finding Nemo. Pixar follows almost the exact plot line, except for parents looking for their child, it is a child looking for their parents. There is no creativity in the plot set up for this movie, however the similarity is not a disappointment. It allows for Pixar to up the ante when it comes to the new animation technology, the script, and the actors, and they did just that. With the advancement in technology, and the ability to create animation increases in movies, adds to the wonder of this movie. Compared to the 2003 movie Finding Nemo, this film has many more intricate details regarding the animation. The primary background of the ocean water flows extremely fluidly. Also, way the fish maneuver throughout the water is remarkably life-like, one might think they are swimming with the fish. Not to mention the ray of colors within this film are as vibrant as ever. Pixar deserves an A+ with this one! Besides the amazing animation, the cast line up for this movie is also absolutely incredible. Day time talk show host and comedian, Ellen DeGeneres is flawless as Dory, while the hilarious Ed O'Neal and Ty Burrell (stars of ABC's Modern Family) are along with her throughout the adventure. Not to mention countless of other familiar voices such as: Kaitlin Olson, Albert Brooks, and Diane Keaton, help add to the light heartedness of the movie. The cast chosen for this movie are high quality actors as they add many raw emotions throughout movie, giving it the ability to appeal to the emotions of people of all ages. If you are looking for a movie to watch alone, with friends, or even with family you can't go wrong with Finding Dory. If you missed the showings while it was in theaters do not worry as it is now out on DVD, and as of February 2017 it is up on Netflix making it accessible for everyone to watch and enjoy the 'tale' of the fun, lovable, but forgetful fish, Dory.
Disney and Pixar have a tendency to create bad sequels. Finding Dory is not one of those movies. It follows Dory, Merlin's sidekick in the first movie. The Movie has some sadder parts to it, but these parts are few and never get to the levels of other classic Disney flicks. The Movie is mostly funny, I found myself laughing a lot. The comedy mainly surrounds the Character Dory and her chronic memory loss. The bit is done enough to get plenty of laughs, but not enough to get old. The movie brings back many of the characters from the first movie including, of course, Merlin and Nemo. A hand full of new characters are added and play well of Dory and the other characters. It's paced well and the plot has a few twists that keep it interesting. The climax is epic but you know everything is going to turn out fine, which does take a little away from the climax. I don't think is has to be said but the animation is stunning and the movie looks great, I mean what did you expect its Pixar.Overall the movie is excellent, Its great for kids and its great for adults. It isn't the most epic movie of 2016 or the most thought- provoking, but it is one of the most entertaining. If you have the means check it out.
There are some nuggets of funny moments but in general it is not much different from the first movie. A great kids movie if you've seen Finding Nemo and want more of the same.
Oh man, I love the character of Dory. Pixar never get bored to amuse us with their amazing animation. Good story stuffed with humour. A nice watch.
I'm not sure why this film has had so many negative reviews... When I first heard about it I didn't understand why they were bringing out a film after finding memo, and the first time I watched it I didn't actually find it that great. Since then I've watched it a few times and it just seems to get funnier every time I watch it! There is definitely more of an comedic feel to this film and it has me laughing constantly! Maybe it's just because I'm a big kid, but I absolutely love it!
I think it was great to see Dory side and more about her life. It was creative and overall it was good.
I would say that this definitely benefits from multiple viewings. It's an equally strong film and a worthy sequel.
In the universe of animated cinema, it has been established that a good supporting character in a film that has been a success (box office and critical) will, sooner or later, be entitled to her own film. I could name several examples of this. Dory, a friendly marine creature with serious memory problems, was adorable in 'Finding Nemo', and is the protagonist in this film, made specifically to exploit the character's popularity.The script is relatively simple: after the events of the first film, Dory is living with her new friends, Marlin and Nemo, but she feels something is missing: she doesn't know where her family of origin is, she knows she's lost, and therefore decides to go in search of his own origins, which can be a challenge for a fish with a short memory. Of course, Nemo and Marlin will have to go in search of her when she disappears.The movie works on the basis of how cute and likeable it can be because the script has little to give us, and it feels like only a partial rewrite of the first movie. There are several moments when the story rings false or seems to fray because it is so sparse, flaws that Pixar makes up for and hides with a high dose of cuteness. All the characters are cute, nice, the world is pink, and it seems incredible that no malevolent characters appear. In fact, the closest thing to a villain or a dubious character is a sly octopus, determined to get out of an aquarium, and who is a master at the art of camouflage.The film is visually magnificent, Pixar quality, with excellent visual work, good CGI and magnificent drawings, vivid colors and a wonderful deep blue. It's a good movie for the family and especially if there are kids because there's nothing offensive. The original voice cast is much the same as in the first film, with Ellen DeGeneres standing out in the lead voice, closely followed by Albert Brooks and Kaitlin Olson.
It functions as easy entertainment for the whole family.I'm gonna give Finding Dory an A.
I know Ellen De Generes mainly from clips of her best-known sitcom and her talk show, and from several movies and some of her stand-up comedy. I won't say she deserved an Oscar nomination because she's really just being herself, though she's really good at creating a funny and adorable personality. And yet on two occasions she goes above and beyond. One of those, after she makes a very important discovery about a terrible event in her life, doesn't last very long, but she really shows acting ability. In a more serious Oscar-caliber adult movie, such a performance might have lasted quite a while.And then there is another scene which I will only say shows the most blue fish in the present day up to that point in the movie. It's one of several scenes that make me doubt whether younger children should be watching this movie. And yet even as the tone really changes to serious, and the quality once again looks like something we would see in an Oscar clip, it really will be all right.Sloane Murray as young Dory is so absolutely adorable, and yet her first scenes end up being so sad I began to wonder if young children would be able to handle that. But the tone quickly changes once Dory gets older. The parents have such a positive attitude you just know Dory will be all right. And yet there's one flashback where Dory's mom is crying, wondering if the poor child will ever make it in the world. The parents do such a good job of trying to convince Dory she will be all right.On the subject of Dory's disability, I was concerned the movie was being insensitive to people with Alzheimer's or some other memory problem, but between the writing and the acting the disability makes the movie absolutely hilarious and i have to just accept it. I do wonder about the consistency of Dory's ability to remember things. Maybe when she specifically makes an effort to remember something, she can. The science doesn't have to be perfect. It's just a movie.Can those trees, roads and bridges, and vehicles, and the sky and the clouds really all be art? Surely not! Surely those are all real and the animate characters were just added to that. As real as it looks, it is apparently all created by amazingly talented people and software designers.There is an enjoyable adventure with the expected obstacles, and even a vehicle chase worthy of 'The Fast and the Furious'. This time, no stunt driving was required and animators could so almost anything and no one would get hurt.I considered skipping to the end, since I recorded this, to see who everyone was. I didn't recognize any voices other than De Generes. I thought Marlin was David Koechner, but he wasn't. Albert Brooks did a very good job.And while I didn't know the voice until the credits, Ed O'Neill is one of TV's finest grouches. He delivered here is 'septopus' Hank. Is there an actual octopus species that can change color to match its surroundings? Who cares? We're not trying to be scientifically accurate and it gave us some interesting and even funny situations.Kaitlin Olson? Really? Such a nasty person in 'The Mick' and 'It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia'. Destiny is so nice and friendly.And there were many other fine acting performances where I didn't recognize the voice, and that was just fine. It's better if we know these voices as just the character and not think of the actor. Except when the actor is so much like the character, of course. So many fun characters.There is one more reason I am reluctant to say young children should watch. There was one two-word insult that I have heard people say shouldn't be allowed on TV when it used in wrestling. And they put this expression in a kids' movie? Other than that, I don't think there is any cursing.I can't believe I didn't notice the music. But I'm sure it was great. What I did notice was a performance of 'Unforgettable' that I would like to forget. I knew Billie Eilish was not yet a star so it couldn't have been her. It was what I believe to be sort of like her style.Overall, it's a great movie for kids, and I suppose adults too.
The continuations in the Pixar universe have always generated reflections and debates about the creative power of the studio. On the one hand, sequences such as Toy Story 2 (1999) and Toy Story 3 (2010) are praised almost unanimously for maintaining the excellence of the original, on the other, Monsters University (2013) and, mainly, Cars 2 (2011) are seen by many as oscillating points in the production company's acclaimed filmography. For these reasons, and also for the thirteen years between productions, Finding Dory, continuation of the absolute success Finding Nemo (2003), arrives wrapped in a colossal expectation.Now in Finding Dory, she takes center stage for her own story, where this specialty is converted from humor to drama, and the immensity of the ocean is reduced to an oceanarium (more controlled environment) to be proportional to the difficulty of the character's mission. She can remember nothing, but she has flashes of memories with her parents, and now that she knows, she needs to find them. In this sequence of the epoch-making feature, the spectator has the feeling that he is missing the loved ones, such as the goldfish Dory, who is now the main protagonist of the story. Thus, the work is an incredible work of nostalgia, which fills its audience with grace just because it reminds them of such a remarkable universe.Director Andrew Stanton returns, this time alongside Angus MacLane, to lead the plot that takes place a year after the events of the first film. Here the little blue fish Dory, who suffers from a recent memory loss problem, begins to gain insights with fragments of memories of her past alongside her parents. With some clues and a lot of disposition, she sets out on a journey to meet her family again, with the clown fish Marlin and her son Nemo as a company. Along the way, Dory gets lost from his friends, ending up at the California Marine Life Institute. The situation of the previous film is reversed, and now the duo Nemo and Marlin are leaving in search of their demoralized companion.Right in the opening scene, the feature opens up its emotional bias, featuring Dory's first flashback. The design of the young version of the character - with his kind and gigantic eyes - receiving the affection of his parents is the first letter presented by Stanton and MacLane to win over the audience and becomes the joker of the filmmakers, as it is repeated several times throughout the narrative. The repetition, incidentally, is one of the keywords of Finding Dory. Something that makes sense due to the protagonist's condition in relation to her memory, but that also ends up serving as an acceptable pretext for the script to revisit a good part of the elements that contributed to Finding Nemo's success.The new feature bets heavily on the affective memory of the audience and their pleasure in recognizing what is familiar to them, such as the riddle of location / address that serves as a guide for searches in films (formerly 'P. Sherman 42, Wallaby Way, Sydney', Now 'The Jewel of Monterey, California'). The sequel also strives to make ingenious connections with Dory's past and reveal the origin of some of his trademarks: knowledge in 'whale' and the motto 'Keep swimming, keep swimming', for example. Some supporting characters also return in small appearances, such as Uncle Stingray and Crush, the surfing turtle. Beside these well-known figures we have a series of new characters, many serving as comic reliefs, such as the trio of sea lions and the mad bird Becky.Others are more important, such as the dubious Hank octopus, the whale shark with vision problems Destiny and the beluga whale Bailey. Although everyone has their dramatic roles in the story, especially Hank, these characters serve much more as tools to facilitate the actions of the protagonists. The filmmakers seek to explore the real biological peculiarities of animals - the mobility and camouflage capacity of octopuses, the echolocation of belugas 'sonar' - transforming them almost into superpowers, which work well in the busiest scenes, including a grand road chase. But, even though it is an interesting idea and inserted in a fanciful context, its exaggeration often ends up sounding like a simple crutch to sustain the weaknesses of the script.The narrative structure adopted by Stanton and his team, despite being linear, fits flashbacks from Dory's childhood that are triggered by events in the present. Thus, the protagonist's disability and how she deals with her condition end up playing a fundamental role in the progress of the story, in a great view of the filmmakers. Although the central theme of the work is 'the family', the main lesson here is how to deal with your own limitations. It is not for nothing that a good part of the new characters, like the grouchy octopus Hank (Ed O'Neill), the whale shark Destiny (Kaitlin Olson) or the beluga whale Bailey (Ty Burrell) have physical problems that need to be overcome in the course of of the adventure. The message of resilience is placed in an organic way inside the tape, which never loses sight of the main objective of the protagonist - something quite ironic, considering Dory's peculiar condition.The film makes it very clear throughout the narrative that Dory is unable to do anything because of his short memory. She may find it more difficult to perform some tasks that are simple for other people, but she is much more than a forgotten fish. The impulsiveness, positivity and ability to find solutions in complicated situations of the character work so well that at certain times we can even say that she forgot that that was an impossible task. That's what made her find Nemo together with Marlin and that's what is highlighted in Finding Dory.All this dramatic part is worked in a subtextual way, with the film never neglecting the good agile and accurate gags and jokes that marked the first film. Not that the script is perfect. Some of the subplots are quite predictable and the script suffers trying to find a role for Marlin and Nemo. However, every time the film focuses on the title character, all of that is left out. Dory remains adorable and charismatic, with an almost unshakable optimism and the contrast of his cheerful personality, not only with Hank's traumatic grumpy - who ends up being his main partner for much of the feature - but with his own loss past, makes her a really interesting heroine.Looking for Dory is exactly about longing and this need to find those who make us feel at home, regardless of what happened in the past or how long it has been since we last met. Thus, Finding Dory provides a simple feeling in its viewer, uniting in an exemplary way the feelings of his audience with those of the characters on the scene, a film that comes to be very enchanting because of that. And if Finding Dory expands the universe seen in Nemo, Stanton and his team still demonstrate an enormous creative capacity, both in putting their range of characters in unusual situations, such as the hand pool that is filmed as if it were a natural catastrophe - but in In fact, it is a tank in which the children of the institute can interact with animals - but also in the creation and continuation of their visual identity, often creating sequences with an aesthetic precision that will fill the eyes of any film buff. One is the moment when Nemo, Marlin and Dory are chased by a giant squid; the visual construction of the suspense scene is incredible, showing that Pixar's excellent films go beyond great scripts.As it could not be otherwise, the visual part of the production is impeccable. It is not difficult to recognize the aesthetic richness achieved by the work of the Pixar team: the characters are expressive without having to be excessively anthropomorphized; Marine Institute always brings a pleasant surprise to each new environment; the color palette is rich and intense (it is a pleasure to see how, for example, Dory, Marlin and Nemo change colors appropriately depending on the light - or lack of - that is seen in each place); and the quality of the animation is what we might expect from the studio (note, for example, how the movements of Dory's fins look like anxious beats on the head as she struggles to remember something). More efficient is also the montage: If in Finding Nemo the narrative sounded episodic, relying excessively on fades to jump from one character to another, here these transitions are made in a much more fluid (pardon the pun) and organic way. On the other hand, the excessive reliance on the convenient flashbacks that bring back the heroine's memories when they are most needed is a little disappointing. To top it off, if the animals' actions were relatively plausible in the first feature, however extreme they may be, here the script abandons any attempt to solve the problems with the minimum of verisimilitude - and the climax of the projection, in particular, is too absurd, no fitting the logic established in Nemo.The essence of Pixar's formula is the balance between humor and emotion, and the film manages to achieve it satisfactorily. There are some inspired jokes and puns, the graphic quality of the animation fills the eyes and the drama of loss and the importance of the family has an undeniable appeal. What is missing for Finding Dory is the spark of genius that makes the masterpieces of the studio manage to escape precisely from the facilities previously exposed. Some moments of animation approach this level, such as the emotional climax of Dory or the great sequence in the aquarium of the children's wing of the marine park. But even these scenes do not dazzle the opening minutes of Up (2009) or the culinary critic's scene in Ratatouille (2007), just to mention two examples. Anyway, this probably won't hinder Find Dory's success, because the audience's affection for the universe of Nemo, Marlin and Dory makes them enter the field with the game already won.
The sequel is good, its rewatchable but it's nothing special, it is just another sequel for a great movie.
This was just awful, maybe for kids it might be good ( 2/10 )
Don't trust the bad reviews. The movie is so good. Infact, this is even more emotional than Finding nemo. If you're looking for an emotional family adventure with a little humor, you gotta love it!
I didn't like this sequel, despite really enjoying Finding Nemo. They sort of repeated the same thing and tried to get likes off some member berries. Not for me.
Not as good as the original but has similar elements and themes to it. This movie focuses more about Dory and her origin as you can probably tell by the title and was a worthy watch.Solid story that is similar to the original and has positive messages also. Characters are pretty much the same except for some new introductions such as the octopus and Destiny the whale shark. The visuals were fantastic, very crisp and fancy looking. And lastly with good music and voice acting.Overall an enjoyable film.Memorable:No Rewatchable: Maybe..
I think this is excellent movie in terms of technicalities and story I don't know why people are saying this is a boring movie but I enjoyed this movie thoroughly. Overall a excellent movie. In my opinion must watch
All of the characters are kinda annoying in this one except Marlin. They all repeat their point over and over. The first movie was much more heart felt.
The characters were great, each with their own distinct personalities. These include: Hank the Octopus who only had 7 tentacles, Destiny the Whale Shark who was short sighted, Bailey the Beluga Whale who had problems with his echolocation, and many more interesting creatures, many of whom could have their own spin-off. The voice cast is a terrific collection of voices. There are jokes aimed towards the kids, but also some subtlety aimed toward the adults. The general plot isn't that original, it's similar to the original Finding Nemo. It's an adventure movie about a character trying to get home. Sometimes there is silliness and comedy, and sometimes there are sad moments. Its main positives are its characters and its use of various emotions. On the whole, an amazing sequel where the main character from the original is pushed aside and the supporting character take over like in Monster Inc, Cars 3 and to some extent Incredibles 2. I wonder why they do that but it's doesn't matter as it's very effective.
Not as bad as it's made outLove Albert Brooks.It is all stuff we have seen before, which made for a slow start. When the movie arrives at the aquarium, we finally see something new, but it is only mildly entertaining. At that point Dory's story-line really takes off, which I found to be really sad and overly serious.In the original movie, Dory was quirky, and full of heart and sweetness; she almost personified optimism. Her character does not change in this movie, but the directors' approach toward her mental affliction does. What was a silly but funny affliction in the first movie is now treated as a serious disability. We now see Dory and the characters around her sad, confused, lost, and really scared most of the time. I completely understand what they were going for in this film, especially for families dealing with special needs family members. At the same time, this movie never makes the strong emotional impacts of many other Pixar films. It's more of a downer than a tearjerker.
I feel kinda bad given this 6 stars but it's a really forgettable film, It's got nothing on the first one
This sequel is very nice. It was made in such a decent way for kids. Even some of the adults will probably enjoyed it. This movie have a great looking CGI animation style with a whole new interesting effects. The design of the background and different objects is so colourful. Also the characters have a strong build personalities. They are fun to watch.
Finding Dory is an incredible movie for the whole family.
